Innovations in intellectual
property rights management
Their potential benefits and limitations

Abstract
Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to evaluate innovations in intellectual property rights (IPR) databases, techniques and software tools, with an emphasis on selected new developments and their contribution towards achieving advantages for IPR management (IPRM) and wider social benefits. Several industry buzzwords are addressed, such as IPR-linked open data (IPR LOD) databases, blockchain and IPR-related techniques, acknowledged for their contribution in moving towards artificial intelligence (AI) in IPRM.
Design/methodology/approach – The evaluation, following an original framework developed by the authors, is based on a literature review, web analysis and interviews carried out with some of the top experts from IPR-savvy multinational companies.
Findings – The paper presents the patent databases landscape, classifying patent offices according to the format of data provided and depicting the state-of-art in the IPR LOD. An examination of existing IPR tools shows that they are not yet fully developed, with limited usability for IPRM. After reviewing the techniques, it is clear that the current state-of-the-art is insufficient to fully address AI in IPR. Uses of blockchain in IPR show that they are yet to be fully exploited on a larger scale.
Originality/value – A critical analysis of IPR tools, techniques and blockchain allows for the state-of-art to be assessed, and for their current and potential value with regard to the development of the economy and wider society to be considered. The paper also provides a novel classification of patent offices and an original IPR-linked open data landscape.
Keywords Artificial intelligence, Software tools, Big data, Social benefits, Intellectual property rights management, Linked open databases
Paper type Research paper
1. Introduction
The world today seems to be characterised by the effects of information and communication technology (ICT) on every aspect of our lives, including that of intellectual property rights (IPR) (Modic, 2017). Freeman and Louca (2002, p. 301) wrote that “even those who have disputed the revolutionary character of earlier waves of technological change, have little

difficulty accepting that a vast technological revolution is now taking place”. The surge of intellectual property is mirrored in rising IPR numbers with dissemination efforts dependent upon the available data, channels and skills. IPR data are big data, as its characteristics are high volume, high variety and high velocity of changes (Ciccatelli, 2017). Consequently, merging different types of IPR data from various databases presents a challenge (Stading, 2017; Abbas et al., 2014).
When huge amounts of IPR data are connected, a new ecosystem for (open) innovation emerges. It is important to examine the best available IPR data sources, and their merge-readiness, in order to extract the maximum value. Furthermore, it is important to ensure the availability of appropriate IPR techniques and tools if we are to harness the benefits for IPR management (IPRM) and the wider social benefits of this new open IPR landscape and move towards knowledge creation assisted by artificial intelligence (AI). Examining the latest trends in technological solutions and their potential is the foci of our paper.
Figure 1 presents two dimensions: the benefits and the technology. Looking at the technology dimension, all three layers represent issues companies face. IPR software tools and techniques should better respond to business requirements, and as such support changes in databases when dealing with IPR big data, such as the implementation of blockchain technology and linked open databases.
The benefits dimension is also facing several gaps. One refers to the identification of the accessibility of employees’ knowledge both in SMEs and IPR-savvy companies. In addition, there are inefficiencies when trying to transform tacit to explicit knowledge in order to further knowledge creation.
Both the technology and benefits dimensions are linked, as the technology aims to, largely unsuccessfully at the present time, to support the requirements of the IPRM, thus increasing the IPRM-derived benefits. These would consequently be translated, especially through the use of blockchain technology and IPR-linked open data (IPR LOD) databases, into increased social benefits. The question as to when, and if, the technology will become smart enough to create IPR software tools and techniques that will function in an intelligent manner remains open to debate, as we are faced with increasing transparency and inherently imbued trust.

If AI systems provide the best possible answer to every IPR-related business requirement, in order to maximise business potential, does this mean that the employees’ knowledge creation will become obsolete and AI systems will be able to effectively create new knowledge?
The paper offers a review and an interview-based analysis of the requirements and expectations of some of the top IPR experts from IPR-savvy multinationals, as well as a consideration of the potential social benefits. This is followed by a web-based analysis and data retrieval-based evaluation of the current evolution of IPR (LOD) databases. Furthermore, the practical solutions available have been critically evaluated with respect to IPR databases and IPR software tools. The results of the analysis of the state-of-the-art with the available techniques are presented. Finally, a debate-style conclusion is presented.
2. Background and prepositions
This paper investigates IPRM and IPR social benefits by answering what are the potential social and IPRM benefits of adopting new ICT solutions when dealing with IPR, and especially what is the current state of all three technological layers? The research is based on the following prepositions constructed following the literature review and the evidence-based approach.
The first preposition is linked to the availability of data and its connectivity, hence to state-of-the-art of Layer 1 in our framework in Table I. One of the newer directions for the field of intellectual property is IPR data in linked open data (LOD) format. This is following two trends: the linked open data idea, introduced as a vision more than a decade ago by Berners-Lee (2006) – envisioning the web as a web of data rather than a web of linked documents; the second is based on the notion of open government. European countries are developing policies to release data as open data and putting in place the “systemic” prerequisites for effective use and re-use of them (European Data Portal, 2017; Bauer and Kaltenböck, 2012). The road to effective open data systems are nonetheless long, hence we investigate where on the Berners-Lee Five Star Open Data Plan individual patent offices are at the moment, before presenting the LOD IPR map:
P1. TheIPR-linkedopendata(IPRLOD)mapisstillinitsinfancy,thusthefullpotential of their social benefits are still not realized.
There is a certain hype created in the IPR community either under the moniker of augmented intelligence (Fleischman, 2018) or augmented expertise (White, 2018). In connection to the

  Type
***** (and ****) ***
**
*
Data available in
LOD (and RDF) CSVd
XLS
PDFd
Patent offices
EPO; USPTOa; Korean Patent Officeb; IPO UKb; IP Australiac French Patent Office; Norwegian Patent Office; German Patent Office Hungarian Patent Office; Austrian Patent Office; Polish Patent Office; Swedish Patent Office
Italian Patent Office; Bulgarian Patent Office; Benelux Patent Office; Spanish Patent Office; Estonian Patent Office ; Finish Patent Office; Irish Patent Office; Czech Republic Patent Office; Lithuanian Patent Office; Slovak Patent Office; Portuguese Patent Office; HR Office; Slovenian IP Office; Swiss Patent Office; Hellenic Patent Office; Romanian Patent Office; Danish Patent Office

second preposition, our presumption is that the current state of techniques do not support a sufficient level of semantic understanding that would contribute to successful automation of retrieval and comparison scenarios. Techniques like deep learning show some promise to significantly contribute in this case, yet these approaches are still in active development. Through the investigation of this preposition, we focus on Layer 2 in the begin framework:
P2. AIisatermusedverybroadlywhenconnectedtoIPRtechniques,tooversellvarious information retrieval (IR) and machine learning (ML) methods.
The third preposition is connected to Layer 3. In this part – in contrast to the first preposition – we move from the public sector to the private sector, and to especially IPRM benefits. We theorise there is a lack of accessibility and transfer of employees’ knowledge, and a low level of transformation of tacit to explicit knowledge, as we believe the current tools function more as visualisation, project management and docking tools. The holistic IPRM-supporting tools, which would allow for internal/external merge of data, as well as support back office (in particular also information, technology and knowledge transfer) as well as front-office IPR activities (Modic and Damij, 2018) are lacking. This part deepens the work started in the study of Modic and Damij (2018) and the evidence is both interview-based as well as a results of IPR tools testing and web searches:
P3. ThetoolsdonotcorrespondtotheneedsofusersasexpressedbytopIPRmanagers.
Amongst the several IPRM and social benefits that the paper investigates, due consideration is given to blockchain potential IPR-connected benefits (P4). Several private companies as well as governmental and intergovernmental organisations are currently researching the possibilities of blockchain use in many different fields, including record keeping and smart contracts (Morabito, 2017) which are crucial for the IPR issues:
P4. Blockchain has the potential to produce both IPRM and IPR-connected social benefits if some issues are solved.
The outputs of this paper are the classifications of IPR databases and patent offices according to Berners-Lee Open Data Plan, and IPR LOD map as connected to patents as well as classification of tools and techniques. A mixed methods approach has been used, every part diligently designed with methodological notes.
3. Methodology
We derive our analysis of potential benefits of new solutions for IPR and the potential of IPR tools from interviews with ten prominent IP experts. First, interviews with ten prominent IP experts were conducted. Seven out of the ten IP experts were head IP managers within their respective companies. The companies selected are positioned highly in terms of patent applications and quality rankings. Furthermore, they appear on top innovation listings, such as MIT’s list of the 50 Smartest companies. All respondents are executives with years of experience; and one of the interviewees appeared twice in the 50 most influential people in IP, as listed by the Managing Intellectual Property magazine. Views expressed inside the interviews are their own and not the views of the companies they are affiliated with. Interviews were conducted either in person, via Skype or via similar VoIP during 2016 and with follow-ups in 2017. Transcripts were analysed using MAXQDA Analytics Pro 12 software. Interview questions were divided into three sections: IPRM (1), formalization (2) and optimisation of processes and gaps reduction (3)). In particular for this paper three topics and their related questions that were included in this semi-structured interview questionnaire are harnessed upon (pertaining to either part (1) or part (3): What is the missing information and/or resources?; Which software tools do you use inside your processes? What are their pros and cons?; What kind of (big) data analysis would be particularly interesting? Who can provide them?

The technologies section brings further methods. The classification of patent offices was done in the period January–February 2018 by conducting web searches and experimental searches with consequent search retrievals inside patent search machines either for full patent documents or at least bibliographical exports. The classification encompasses primarily EU Patent Offices as well as a selection of other relevant patent offices[1]. The framework for the patent map relies on The Linking Open Data cloud diagram, however, it has been significantly upgraded by including material gathered via web searches guided by discussions with various patent offices’ staff members. Analysis of techniques is based on critical literature review. We also reviewed websites of 11 top IPR tools providers as identified by interviewees and/or the Hyperion MarketViewTM Report (2016) and Capterra’s review (2017). Analysis is based on reviews of websites (November, 2017) by Anaqua for Corporations, IP One ( from CPA Global), InnovationQ ( from ip.com), IPfolio, PatentSight, Unycom Enterprise, Wellspring’s IP management software, Patricia ( form Patrix), Alt Legal, Inteum, Dennemeyer’s DIAMS iQ[2].
4. The potential social and IPRM benefits of new advances in the field of IPR
One of the biggest problems of IPR data usability is the rapid growth of number of IPR, especially patents. They are written in different languages and it has become increasingly challenging to understand the state of the art, this consequently causing duplication of research and increasing the number of invalid patents granted. Once errors can be corrected, it will be easier to identify inherently invalid patents previously granted, and consequently leading to a natural rise in the quality of IPR.
Governments have a large quantity of IPR-related data, which can be of economic and social value to society. European Patent Office (EPO) sees the advantages of its new LOD patent databases, one of the outlets of the new open data trend, as increased availability of data from different sources via one channel, less “data friction” when combining different data sets, more effective linking with business information and increased trust thanks to provenance (Kracker, 2017). The Korean Patent Office (KIPO) also saw its efforts in a similar manner (KIPO, 2016).
The growing importance of IPR Open (linked) data is connected to better transparency making it easier for companies to understand their value. However, if we could not only have exploitable open databases, but if these could also be combined with IPR techniques with AI functionality, and additionally, IPR tools which supported the handling of IPR data by integrating some AI functionalities, we could be seeing a new form of tacit knowledge, the “Artificial intelligence knowledge” creation (see Figure 1). Therefore, the often problematic issue of tacit knowledge inside the IPR field embodied in individuals (note that the usual way of gaining IPRM, exploitation and other connected IPR knowledge is through apprenticeship and that the rotation of individuals presents a serious problem for especially company IPR departments, Modic and Damij, 2018)) would be transformed into a latent explicit knowledge (knowledge available on recall as opposed to explicit knowledge, always available). Solutions, like IBM Watson, seem to also be a game changer in this area. Watson identified compounds on which the patent protection has already lapsed, and the pilot results suggest that Watson can accelerate identification of novel drug candidates and novel drug targets by harnessing the potential of patent (and connected) big data (Chen et al., 2016). The IBM team believes the insights provided by Watson technology are to be used as a guide, i.e., as augmented intelligence – which is capable of ingesting, digesting, understanding and analysing data and can be harnessed in various elements of IPR processes: from evidence of use, to prior art, patent landscapes and portfolio analysis (Fleischman, 2018). If the technology was widely available with all its features, this could present a significant change, as it would enable smaller entities to access knowledge that is now tacit knowledge.


When discussing traceability, blockchain is one of the frequently debated issues. Several potential social benefits, as derived from the utilisation of blockchain in the field of IPR, are present. A tool for registration of IPRs could simplify registration and lower the costs (Vella et al., 2018; Morabito, 2017) or could be an alternative to IPR registration, especially patents. Thus, it has a potential particularly for small entities (independent inventors, SMEs, non-profit organisations), as well as inventors and organisations from less developed countries, who are unable to access the current world patent system simply because it is too expensive for them.
Blockchain provides a robust and trustworthy method of establishing business ownership on intangible assets, including IPR (Morabito, 2017) and thus has the potential to enhance transparency of IPR transactions (Vella et al., 2018). Not only does this have positive effects for individual companies, but it can also streamline the costs of operations for patent offices, and reduced options for litigation can lower court case numbers and reduce court backlogs. Furthermore, it also has the potential to enable half open licensing, when royalties start only when IPR-based income is generated by downstream users; meaning that without income generation, the half open licenses allow for IPR-based solutions to be spread in an open environment. Moreover, it would allow tracking commons’ knowledge (under open licenses or not) incorporation into corporate IPR portfolios disallowing the privatisation of gains.
With regard to potential IPRM benefits, IPRM deals with managing IPR big data efficiently, and differently (Braganza et al., 2017; Davenport et al., 2012). McAfee and Brynjolfsson (2012) argue that companies will not reap the full benefits of the transition made in exploiting big data, unless they are able to manage change effectively.
Analysis of the interviews showed a clear trend that IP executives are aware of the growing importance of ICT, and their role in IPRM, however, they continue to struggle with defining how to integrate IPR tools to achieve best outcome. A Senior IP Counsel at a German multinational chemical manufacturing corporation stated that, “IT developments will have a big impact in the near future on IP development, because the more transparent you make the IP, the easier it is for management to understand its value”.
Utilising the ICT in IPR processes is possible, however, doing it in the most efficient way to enable companies to achieve maximum benefits, is the ideal. Some companies use a range of different software tools connected to IPR and IPRM, whilst others try to find or develop software that integrates as many features and data sources as possible and are able to connect to other business processes and databases. Generally, the more comprehensive the tool, the less information is missing, and consequently, the higher the satisfaction level. Nonetheless, some experts, such as the Head of Legal Operations and IP Management at a European multinational pharmaceutical corporation, believe that IPR tools often promise more than they deliver. He states that they, “do not think there are any particularly good IP management tools on the market /.../the whole industry still lacks are real IP management tools, helping to relate to the business value more”. IPR experts are seeking a tool that would, in addition to being a comprehensive docketing system and simple interface retrieval of data from public IPR databases, also encompass supplying or channelling invention disclosures to pertinent individuals, providing functionality for IPR valuation, evaluation and analysis.
The next chapter will provide more detail deal with regard to the technological dimension, providing an analysis on the current state of linked open databases, software tools for IPRM and techniques that support IPR data correction and analytics.
5. Technology
5.1 Databases and linked (open) data
Since the Venetian patent statute of 1474, IPR have retained their connection to the concept of openness and dissemination of ideas in exchange for limited time monopolies. There are various types of databases and online sources connected with IPR constituting Layer 1 in the framework in Table I. Public patent databases as the original sources allow raw data
 
 retrieval and the use of interfaces by providing patent texts and some metadata. Related IPR databases include, for example, those related to patent disputes, patent citations. Business databases provide information on IPR owners, etc. Scientific databases provide us inter alia with data on inventors. Miscellaneous online data sources include less or more structured sources, e.g., business news, blogs-based IPR-related texts, information on IPR experts. Multi-source IPR databases provide broader information, e.g., on IPR quality and business connected data. Two examples of the latter are the data set linking the EPO and USPTO patent data to Amadeus business database and the Oxford Firm-Level IP Database (Thoma and Torrisi, 2007; Helmers et al., 2011).
Linked open data (IPR LOD) databases are the latest evolution in IPR databases, although the concept of LOD goes back to 2006, when principles such as using uniform resource identifiers as names for things and including links were put forward (Berners-Lee, 2006). Linked data are data published on the web in a machine-readable format, which can be linked to or from external data (Bizer et al., 2009). LOD is in essence a format allowing for efficient (multi-source) database utilisation as the term refers to a set of practices for publishing and interlinking structured data (Auer, 2014).
Combining this to ideas of open data, we get LOD, structured data made available for others to be reused (Mezaour et al., 2014). The concept is connected to the Open Data movement to ensure public government data are accessible in non-proprietary formats (Bauer and Kaltenböck, 2012). However, LOD landscape includes databases provided by non-governmental entities. DBPedia, extracting structured knowledge from Wikipedia, is often seen as the “nucleus” of LOD (Auer et al., 2007). Furthermore, patent data of individual patent offices are sometimes provided by outside providers, such as in the case of USPTO or ( formally) the EPO.
Table I shows the classification of patent offices and their data according to the Berners-Lee Five Star Open Data Plan. More stars indicate data formats more conducive to open data policies, as they allow for easier export and import of data, and more streamlined merging and analysis. The category **** is redundant as there is no standalone RDF providing databases; and, we would suggest an introduction of the *****+ category, where the additional criteria is the existence of linkages with other data, signalling the real uptake of the raw data by users (see Table I). The Type indicates the most Open data friendly format, though patent offices often provide other formats simultaneously. They often also provide more than one database, and the degree of the export varies for bibliographical data (Swiss Patent Database offering up to 25 variables).
Five patent offices are leading in terms of IPR LOD; USPTO, EPO, KIPO, IPAustralia and IPO UK. Cooperation of national offices with Espacenet was also advantageous, as it produced the option of a limited bibliographic data download in .csv format (not taken into account above). However, most of the patent offices can still be categorised only as Type * or Type **, their data remaining in linkable open data unfriendly formats.
There are only a few databases that could be categorised as *****+, or that have shown other initiatives to make exporting, merging and analysing data easier. For example, KIPO has not only published the IPR LOD, but also included the owners’ corporate registration number and the Australian Patent Office IPR database includes information about companies’ size, technology and geographic location, making it easier for users to link data on patents to information on related business entities (KIPO, 2016; Man, 2014).
Currently, EPO’s Linked open data is the newest of the few IPR LOD databases at users’ disposal. It builds upon their previous work in connecting patent-related data, such as their Deep Linking service, allowing users to consult the EP document’s legal status data. However, the IPR LOD database remains as a raw data product and without additional skills and resources cannot be fully utilised, which could potentially widen the gap between SMEs and IPR-savvy companies. For example, the linkage to DBPedia has also been carried out, but since then de-installed (Kracker, 2017). This year the EPO also included in their

 
 EJMBE 28,2
196
Research grant call explicitly the field of linked open data and solutions therein, where at least one project will start end of this year linking EPO database with the Springer database (IP LodB, 2018). The current LOD IPR landscape shown below is based on the The Linking Open Data cloud diagram and upgraded[3].
Figure 2 shows patent LOD databases[4] we could call *****+, and their inbound and outbound links, as per The Linking Open Data cloud diagram (LOD cloud, 2018) – a complex LOD ecosystem currently listing 1,164 data sets. They are also linked to the most inbound and outbound link-rich LOD databases, namely, the Comprehensive KAN and DBPedia. The new EP LOD and KIPO databases have no data on linkages, even though some attempts were made as mentioned above. There are, however, several LOD databases that this patent data could be linked to; e.g. the recently published bibliographic LOD database by Springer Nature SciGraph or the older New York Times LOD.
When considering the traceability of IPR data, some patent offices offer centralised solutions, such as i-DEPOT, which allows to trace the date of inventions’ creation. However, at the forefront of these debates is blockchain as a disruptive technology, due to its transparency, decentralisation and prevention of infringements and fraud. Blockchain is a chain of blocks of chronologically linked information, replicated in a distributed database. Information can be added, but never removed, changes are registered and validated. Individual blocks can be protected by cryptography, and only those authorised can access the information (McPhee and Ljutic, 2017). Blockchain application to IPR can be either inside the registration or exploitation phases (related to issues of licensing, proving authenticity and piracy) (Vella et al., 2018; Morabito, 2017) as well as distribution. In case of licensing, the topic is connected to smart contracts, open licenses and IPR-based collaboration (Pilkington, 2016; Morabito, 2017). Smart contracts are computer codes that reside in the blockchain and are implemented if certain conditions are met, which is confirmable by a number of computers to ensure truthfulness (Morabito, 2017; Szabo, 1997). There are numerous potential applications of blockchain connected to IPR. Also, the Linked Data paradigm is evolving from an academic concept for addressing one of the biggest challenges in the area of information management

the exploitation of the web as a platform for data and information integration; to practical applications in IPR field deriving from the transfer from the Web of Documents to a Web of Data. Yet, it is clear there is still much to be done, both in terms of the volume of IPR LOD-connected databases, as well as their functionality in linking to other LOD data sets as well as the real-life uptake of blockchain solutions.
5.2 Classification of tools and techniques
This chapter summarises the techniques and tools (technology Layers 2 and 3 as set out in Figure 1) that analyse large quantities of patent documents and other IPR data to provide useful information to various users.
The EPO’s database, Espacenet, on its own, currently contains over 100m patent documents from 90 patent authorities worldwide. Whilst patent data are exceptionally important, it is also very difficult to extract some useful information from it as patents are mostly stored as images; written in different languages; countries have different patent requirements; no uniform structural requirements; some patent figures are drawn by hand, some on computer; some patent attorneys intentionally use misleading language; incomprehensible language and grammatical mistakes can be also used inadvertently. How to deal with these issues remains a challenge.
There are several possible taxonomies of IPR software. Considering their functionalities we see tools supporting different phases of the innovation cycle, those supporting financial management (record and estimate costs), archiving documents (IPR portfolio) and enabling communication between users and IPR offices. Some tools have functionality to integrate data from external databases, such as patent litigation information and patent citation indexes. In terms of intended user-base we have IPR tools for companies, for IPR experts and for technology transfer offices.
There is an upward trend in the creation of new IPRM software in recent years. However, after reviewing the websites of the 13 most important IPR tools providers by Hyperion MarketViewTM Report (2016) it appears that these tools only modestly respond to the challenges raised, and largely look like any project management software. Bonino et al. (2010) was optimistic with regard to semantic-based solutions, however, some of the tools he describes are currently in poor condition or unavailable.
In terms of techniques utilised in semantic analysis, Abbas et al. (2014) made a taxonomy of proposed computer-assisted patent analysis techniques where they distinguish between text mining and visualisation approaches. These two categories are based on frequent use-cases, whilst the underlying methods are primarily inspired by IR and ML. This is not unreasonable, as patent documents are similar to other types of documents in that they contain textual and visual data as well as references to other documents.
As seen in Figure 3, a typical IR system consists of document pre-processing, feature extraction and feature analysis. Each of those steps can be based on heuristic rules or utilise machine learning methods. In the following paragraphs, we review the use of different techniques in the IPR research domain in the last decade, with a particular focus on the
Innovations in IPRM
197
  Database
Unsupervised learning
Feature analysis
NLP
Image analysis
Document pre-processing
Frequency Concepts
Structures Feature
extraction
Similarity
Supervised learning
Figure 3.
A typical computer- assisted document analysis pipeline as IPR techniques classification framework
 
 EJMBE 28,2
198
works referenced in recent literature reviews by Abbas et al. (2014) and Aristodemou and Tietze (2017). The list is by no means complete, it is only focussed on key examples illustrating the diversity and potential of such methods.
The patent document pre-processing step involves scanning the unstructured data (text and images) and extracting useful information from it.
Due to the nature of the patent data, the approaches mainly focus around text mining techniques; meaning using some kind of natural language processing (Wang et al., 2015; Han et al., 2017), such as subject–action–object analysis (Park, Kim, Choi and Yoon, 2013; Park, Ree and Kim, 2013), property–function analysis (Dewulf, 2013) or rule-based analysis to extract semantic primitives. Several authors have also proposed the utilisation of patent images and sketches in patent analysis, in order to determine similarities between patents (Bhatti and Handbury, 2013). In terms of pre-processing, image analysis challenges involve localisation of images and sub-images, categorisation of images and label recognition (Vrochidis et al., 2010). The primary sources of inter-information are cross-patent citations (Altuntas et al., 2015).
The feature extraction methods transform low-level semantic primitives into a document- wide representation. By involving projection of each document into a high-dimensional feature space we can determine bounds between classes or proximity of documents. When processing textual data, the semantic primitives can be frequency vectors (Chen and Yu-Ting, 2011), vectors of concepts that describe higher-level semantic information, or domain-specific hierarchical structures (Lee, 2013). In analysis of patent sketches, content is frequently encoded with shape or texture descriptors (Bhatti and Handbury, 2013) due to the line-art nature of visual information.
The method used in the feature analysis stage depends on the problem at hand, for example, retrieval of similar patents. In this case, IR techniques based on vector distances (Lee, 2013) are used to infer which documents are most similar. Another task is automatic classification of patents using ML methods. Scenarios include patent quality analysis (Wu et al., 2016), patent categorisation (Vrochidis et al., 2010) and determining the impact of patents on other aspect of companies (Chen et al., 2013). Supervised learning methods, such as support vector machines (Wu et al., 2016) or artificial neural networks (Chen et al., 2013), are frequently used in such cases. In explorative analysis of the patent landscape for trend identification, people have also utilised unsupervised learning methods, like clustering (Atzmüller and Landl, 2009; Madani and Weber, 2016) and network analysis (Dotsika, 2017; Park, Kim, Choi and Yoon, 2013).
Despite the apparent contribution of IR methods in transforming access to information, they are harder to apply to semantic-sensitive fields, such as IPR analysis, with the same level of success. The crucial information in patent documents can be difficult to extract automatically because of objective (history, language) or subjective (intentional misuse of description) reasons. As noted by Lupu (2017), the level of research interest in this field has, after more than a decade of increasing optimism, decreased in the past years. This can be in part attributed to the realisation that extracting high-level semantic content from sophisticated unstructured text and images is very a challenging problem. The most successful working cognitive computing system is IBM Watson, who has already been analysing patent information in the past, with a particular emphasis in the pharmaceutical sector. However, this system is proprietary and accessible only to a limited number of influential clients.
6. Discussion
Over the last years, activities around IPR Open Data, merging of IPR data with related data, IPR Linked Data, IPR-linked open databases and the debates over utilising the Semantic Web opportunities have gained momentum. However, this should go hand in hand with organisations (both public and private) publishing structured data (complying also with linked data standards/principles), the advances in new techniques, as well as IPR tools and
 
 their increased availability. Companies and other patent and IPR data users need to draw on those advanced technologies and tools in order to combine, query (and analyse) data as part of their business intelligence, as well as to improve their services and products.
In terms of the availability of data, the amount of IPR and IPR-connected data publically available is increasing. Responding to P1, the new trends towards formats supporting more export-ready, merge-ready and analysis-ready data are also real, although the amount of patent data available (e.g. as LOD) is still relatively low. LOD means the data are “linkable”, not that it is already linked. This means that the uptake of these databases by the users can be slow and can even widen the gap between the IPR-savvy multinationals with sufficient resources and other smaller entities and individuals. The latter would defeat the purpose of publishing such databases, if the objective was to make IPR data more useful to more groups of users, especially also non-patent savvy users (data scientists, web developers, companies integrating IP into their products). Some steps are taken towards this, for example, IPNOVA (available at the moment as a beta version) which is the interface to the IPAustralia’s IPGOD database. Another route (contrasting somewhat with developing interfaces) is through sufficient dissemination and training workshop accompanying the releases of databases in new formats. On the other hand, the authors remain hopeful as new entities – including private and NGO entities – provide more and more LOD databases, and with growth of potential links, allowing greater potential for IPR.
In response to P2, techniques that would support IPR data correction, and IPR data analytics and software tools, which support IPRM, are still not at a sufficient stage of development for IPR managers and other users dealing with IPR. The IPR tools remain primarily visualisation tools (P3); or project management and docketing tools, applied to the field of IPR. There are few true IPRM tools that also integrate variable (external and internal) data merges and harness new advances in IPR techniques, although some solutions have been integrated. This is perhaps because the existing techniques, which are suitable for many existing retrieval and analysis tasks, are frequently branded as “AI”, a term that increases expectations about the capabilities which existing methods fail to fulfil. A complete AI system is perhaps the ultimate goal of automatic patent analysis, capable of high-level reasoning about the content of patent documents, comparing their underlying ideas and determining similarities. The current state is (far) removed from this goal. At present, it is primarily addressing very narrow domains, interpretable by data scientists and machine learning researchers. However, as also noted by Lupu (2017), recent breakthroughs in deep learning and artificial neural networks already address tasks such as machine translation and image analysis, which can be (and sometimes are) utilised in IPR analysis.
In response to P4, blockchain technology is now fairly widely discussed for its potential to change the nature of IPRs by simplifying registration, lowering costs, increasing transparency and enabling or improving licensing and other transfers of IPR. However, the technology has certain limitations and still needs significant time to develop. This is not only because of the influence that transnational companies have on policy makers, but also, the technology itself might have some weaknesses. It needs huge processing power and therefore for now requires high-volume electricity consumption. Second, field, such as the IPR field, has its own set of limitations connected to legal and judicial frameworks. Therefore, it is important to carefully determine fields where it would be used. “Despite the many interesting potential uses of blockchain technology, one of the most important skills in the developing industry is to see where it is and is not appropriate to use cryptocurrency and blockchain models” (Swan, 2015). Although there are various social and IPRM benefits of employing blockchain technologies in the field of IPR, caution must be applied.
To conclude, despite significant efforts in the last decades, in the field of information technology support to IPRs, and the more and more used buzzwords of augmented intelligence and augmented expertise also for IPR, there is more time needed before these progressive ideas will become (widespread) reality.


Intellectual property law and practice in the blockchain realm

Blockchain technology is claimed to be and perceived as one of the revolutionary technolo- gies that will have an enormous impact on our lives in the forthcoming years and decades. The legal questions surrounding blockchain appear to be among the most controversial issues surrounding this novel technology, which create uncertainties as to the scope and speed of its eventual adoption. Is it legal to use blockchain technology? Does or should any governmental authority or court take a record stored in blockchain into consideration in their decisions? Is blockchain reliable? Can the technology be used for the protection and enforcement of legal and property rights?
The technological advancements offered by blockchain promise wide ranges of use in a variety of sectors and legal areas, including intellectual property (IP) law. This paper will focus primarily on the possible opportunities that blockchain may offer with respect to the future of IP law and discuss its potential impact on the registration, management and en- forcement of intellectual property rights. We will proceed to offer blockchain-based solu- tions to foster the operation of IP offices, reinforce customs procedures in detecting coun- terfeit products, and enhance the efficiency of IP rights management by the right holders. The paper concludes by providing some suggestions to pave the way for the advancement of blockchain technology and to increase the number of people that this technology reaches, as well as its successful integration into the various services and registration/transaction channels that we use today.
 ̇

Blockchain may simply be described as a decentralized
method of recording any data, including but not limited to fi-
nancial transactions, dispositions concerning value or assets,

The first major use of blockchain technology occurred with the creation of Bitcoin, which is the digital crypto-currency
2
in a continuously encrypted and irreversible ledger.
that was introduced in 2009. It has now been followed by more than 700 other digital and virtual crypto-currencies cre- ated using similar technology. Following the widespread real- ization that the Bitcoin currency was built on an immutable


and secure technology,3 the first discussions on how to utilize
blockchain technology in fields other than digital payments
arose in 2012, hinting at the subsequent emergence of projects
4
As indicated above, the main discussions surrounding blockchain nowadays focus on the question of how to utilize this technology in other potential areas of use (i.e., beyond dig- ital currencies) from a commercial and technological perspec- tive. This paper aims to explore blockchain technology from a different angle and examine the implications of this tech- nology from a legal perspective, particularly with respect to Intellectual Property (“IP”) law.
Blockchain technology is highly promising in its potential applications in various IP-related fields. From the initial estab- lishment of an intellectual property right, along its legal jour- ney to registries, licensing and enforcement, blockchain tech- nology can be used to achieve various worthy goals. Despite the social, legal, regulatory and technological challenges faced by this novel technology, the promise of an automated, trust- worthy, effective and efficient IP protection and management system provides a significant incentive to overcome such chal- lenges and make the integration of blockchain technology into these fields a reality.
2. What is blockchain?
Blockchain technology was introduced to the world by a 9- page paper by “Satoshi Nakamoto” (a pseudonym used by the author whose identity is still unknown), titled “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.”5 In this seminal paper, Satoshi Nakamoto set forth a new method of executing trans- fers of value between peers in a traceable and reliable man- ner. This method has two primary features that differentiate blockchain technology from other methods of value transfers between peers and thus makes blockchain prominent among such value transfer systems. These differentiating factors will be discussed below.
Even though the aforementioned definition is a useful starting point for our discussion, it is also worth noting at this point that the term “blockchain” is, in fact, self-explanatory. While attempting to conceptualize and understand what “blockchain” is, one can imagine a literal chain of blocks. Every block in the chain contains the information related to a differ- ent number of transactions. After every transaction in Block 1 is verified, it is added to the blockchain system and can no longer be changed or modified in any way. Block 2, which will contain different transactions, will also include a reference to Block 1, which makes Block 2 bounded with Block 1. In general,

“every time a consensus is reached, a transaction is recorded on a “block” which is a storage space.”6
The most distinctive feature of blockchain technology is that it does not require the involvement of a third party (e.g., banks, public registries, etc.) for transfers of value, whilst pro- viding the parties involved in the transaction with absolute confidence in the validity and security of the transaction. Such transacting parties can be assured of the validity and security of the transaction due to the cryptographic proof of authen- ticity provided by the blockchain technology. Whereas a trans- action needs to be verified by the central server in traditional databases, with blockchain technology, every node in the sys- tem has the ability to cryptographically check and verify any transaction. Instead of having to trust the central server (and the central authority maintaining such a server), peers using blockchain technology are able to create and maintain trust by relying on cryptographical proof in a consensus method. This feature obviates the need for the involvement of a third party in such transactions and is the main differentiator from (and improvement on) systems using traditional databases or ledgers. In other words, blockchain has no central server. The system consists of a large number of “nodes” that are continu- ously checking and confirming the validity of all transactions, instead of just a few such nodes. This distinguishing facet of blockchain technology eliminates (or, at least, seriously miti- gates) the security vulnerabilities associated with traditional central databases.
Along with being a distributed ledger with no intermedi- ary, blockchain’s functions can be described in three different ways, depending on three separate aspects:
such as Ethereum.
tential applications of blockchain technology in sectors other than cryptocurrencies (such as insurance, healthcare, ship- ping and intellectual property) began to be envisioned, con- ceived and developed by various interested parties.
In the light of these discussions, the po-
 “Technical: Business: Legal:
Back-end database that maintains a distributed ledger, openly.
Exchange network for moving value between peers.
A transaction validation mechanism, not requir- ing intermediary assistance.”7
Furthermore, there is another interesting aspect with re- spect to the development of various blockchain products from a legal point of view. Most of the blockchain products in exis- tence were created by software developers in an open-source environment. For instance, the development of the code un- derlying the Bitcoin blockchain (and its subsequent alter- ations and enhancements) were carried out by several indi- viduals, but relied mainly on the contributions of the “Bitcoin community.” The code on which the Bitcoin blockchain8 runs is provided under an MIT license9 (as an open-source license) for the use of any individual free of charge. While the contin- ued operation of the system depends on the participation of its users, the development of the underlying code also evinces the same participatory logic at its core.
Today, there are several blockchains that have been created for different purposes and every one of them contains distinc- tive features. For example, while Bitcoin was designed for use

as a cryptocurrency, the Ethereum blockchain10 is a “turing complete blockchain,”11 12 which incorporates the ability to run smart contracts (allow writing programs) that can solve all sorts of reasonable computational problems, as will further be explained in Section 2.1 below. (Smart contracts are self- executing contracts with the terms of the agreement between buyer and seller being directly written into lines of code.)
Another important blockchain classification concerns the distinction between public and “permissioned” ones. A blockchain can be configured in such a way that it allows ev- eryone to become a node and verify/reject transactions. Such blockchains are available to anyone with an internet con- nection. Once the application running on the blockchain is downloaded to a smartphone or computer, participation in the verification system occurs automatically and takes place in the background. Therefore, while the system is highly se- cure, every piece of data produced from the moment that the blockchain begins operating is shared amongst every node (al- though they are cryptographically anonymized). On the other hand, blockchains can also be configured in a permission- based manner. These blockchains operate based on private networks. To become a node in such a blockchain, one needs to obtain permission from the system. For instance, in the (public) Bitcoin blockchain, one only needs to download a “Bit- coin wallet” from the internet to start participating in the verification system. However, for a permissioned blockchain, one needs to get permission from the administrator of the blockchain to create a blockchain wallet and possibly obtain another authorization to become a node in the verification system. Blockchains also might be configured in a combined way in terms of public and private by granting such authoriza- tions to specified accounts while anyone can have an account and perform certain actions.
2.1. Smart contracts
Smart contracts are a crucial feature of certain blockchains, especially from the perspective of a legal practitioner. Smart contracts are pieces of software into which contractual clauses can be embedded. In other words, the terms of the agreement between the buyer and the seller are written di- rectly into lines of code and such contracts are self-executing.
Nick Szabo first introduced the concept of smart contracts in 1997. Szabo stated that:

many kinds of contractual clauses (such as collateral, bonding,
delineation of property rights, etc.) can be embedded in the hard-
ware and software we deal with, in such a way as to make breach
of contract expensive (if desired, sometimes prohibitively so) for
13
After the idea was first presented, the technology and plat-
forms that could enable and enforce smart contracts were
created through blockchain technology, with the creation of
14
the breacher.
Ethereum.
Ethereum is an example of a turing complete
blockchain due to its programming language called Solidity.
With Solidity, it is theoretically possible to execute a wide
15
The primary function of smart contracts is to automate the
execution of contracts. The software incorporates the obliga-
tions of the parties, and if certain requirements defined by the
parties are met (e.g., time of execution, specific currency rate,
registration of an IP right, etc.), then a smart contract performs
the ensuing obligation, such as the licensing of an IP right or
the transfer of property, money or any other asset. By creating
a smart contract, the parties to the contract no longer have to
trust the other party not to breach their obligations under the
terms of the contract. Nor do they have to depend on an inter-
mediary party, such as a bank or a governmental body, to cre-
ate trust or enforce the rules of the contract. With smart con-
tracts, parties can trust the smart contract itself and rely on
the immutability and verifiability of the underlying blockchain
technology. Once the terms of the contract are agreed upon,
the parties express their mutual understanding in the form of
a smart contract code, which is triggered by digitally signed,
blockchain-based transactions. Once the code in the smart
contract is triggered and execution of the contract begins, it
cannot be stopped unless the parties have previously agreed
on a mechanism in the smart contract concerning this func-
16
range of complex processes.
plete systems, vending machines may be considered as the simplest one and with Solidity; Ethereum enables more com- plex processes to be handled. These include asset transactions involving more than just one party with involvement of sev- eral type of assets (e.g. money, land, rights etc.) through smart contracts.

tion.
a fee (in accordance with the smart contract located on the blockchain) to play a song on a device prior to playing it. In that scenario, the smart contract would check the balance of the account of the licensee before each play, and if the account balance is not sufficient to pay for the price of a single play, the smart contract would automatically choose not to execute the license obligation. It would thus prevent the user from playing the song (otherwise, it would deduct the amount of the fee from the licensee’s account and then play the song). An ex- ample of such a blockchain system already exists: it is called Choon and is a music streaming service and digital payments


ecosystem that aims (more or less) to provide the aforemen-17
It should be noted that blockchains may also differ from each other in other aspects, including the utilization of differ- ent types of cryptography, different consensus algorithms and eligibility for smart contract execution or side chains. How- ever, this paper will set aside these interesting technical is- sues and focus and elaborate instead on the possible use of blockchain technology in the field of IP Law.

3. Challenges and obstacles ahead
Blockchain technology has existed for less than a decade and
can be considered still to be in its infancy. Therefore, talk-
ing about blockchain’s future at this very early stage is almost
like speculating about the future of the internet back in 1980s.
Just as one wouldn’t be able to conceive of or talk about Face-
book, Airbnb or even internet banking in their current forms
back in the Reagan era, it is not very easy to predict where
blockchain technology might take us in the next 20 or 30 years.
However, we can already foresee that blockchain technology
will face various challenges from at least four different as-
pects, namely: (i) technical, (ii) marketing/business, (iii) behav-


However, we can already foresee that blockchain technology
will face various challenges from at least four different as-
pects, namely: (i) technical, (ii) marketing/business, (iii) behav-
18
One of the most significant challenges currently facing blockchain technology, which should be of crucial interest to any legal practitioner, arises from the use of blockchain as a transaction platform. This is because “[a] blockchain network can validate a variety of value-related transactions relating to digital money or assets that have been digitized.”19 Value- related transactions encompass, besides monetary transac- tions, transactions relating to land, debt, or intellectual prop- erty.
The fundamental problem currently facing blockchain
concerns the speed with which these transactions can
be processed through blockchain technology. Compared to
traditional transaction platforms, such as VISA or PayPal,
blockchain is significantly slower at this time. For example,
if we examine the transaction processing capacity of the
Bitcoin blockchain (which is the most widely adopted and
heavily used blockchain), we observe that it can handle 2–
5 transactions-per-second (“TPS”), whereas VISA can handle
The second layer tech-
nologies are built on the technologies constructing the base-
layer blockchains such as Bitcoin or Ethereum blockchains. As
an example of a second-layer technology, SegWit update to
Bitcoin can be mentioned as an improvement on the block size
23
24
As to the legal challenges ahead, the primary obstacle
worth discussing is clearly the lack of adequate regulations
and the absence of a proper legal framework with regard
to blockchains. In recent years, blockchain technology has
emerged and developed much more quickly than anticipated
and we observe numerous applications of this technology that
are creating new grey areas in light of the existing and inade-
quate regulations. For instance, the use of various cryptocur-
rencies to carry out illegal transactions on the Darknet25 mar-
kets was the first regulatory challenge posed by blockchain
technology. Such unlawful behavior forced regulators swiftly
to implement certain regulations in this field in order to com-

25 Darknet is a portion of the internet that is in-
and thus on the cost and speed of Bitcoin blockchain.
ther, the upcoming update about the Lightning Network also
aims to speed up the transactions in Bitcoin blockchain.
Fur-
 ioral/educational, and (iv) legal/regulatory.
of this paper, our main focus will be the potential legal and regulatory challenges to this emerging technology.
56,000 TPS and PayPal can process 155 TPS.
worth noting that “some other blockchains are faster than Bit- coin’s. For example, Ethereum started with 10 TPS in 2015, edg- ing towards 50–100 TPS in 2017, and targeting 50,000–100,000
see https://turbofuture.com/internet/
For the purposes
However, it is
bat money laundering.
ulatory uncertainty arose from Initial Coin Offerings (“ICO”), which were adopted as a crowdfunding method using cryp- tocurrencies. While countless scams have unfortunately oc- curred in recent years regarding ICOs,27 the declarations from regulatory authorities (such as the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States (SEC))28 have also played a significant role in a market that has reached a market cap of


around 58 billion USD.
32
29
erty Organization (“WIPO”) databases, there were 406 applica-
The involvement of regulatory au- thorities (especially securities authorities) aimed to clarify the situation surrounding ICOs and try to protect the investors from the scams, but yet in a timid way. Since the underly- ing technology is still young and rapidly evolving (and has not been completely understood by the regulatory bodies), it is difficult and risky to impose regulations without fully un- derstanding the consequences of such regulation. However, as could be expected, the lack of comprehensive regulation creates uncertainty regarding the future of blockchain tech- nology and slows down the rate of adoption of this promising
technology by global companies in their daily operations.
Another important legal challenge is the lack of planning
concerning the legal requirements in the early blockchain
platforms. Most of these platforms were focused on transac-
30
tions and not nearly as much on their reporting obligations. This lack of foresight has now forced these platforms conduct- ing value transfers to devise new solutions with respect to the reporting problem. Even though the lack of smooth and efficient reporting processes now may seem likely to cause problems in terms of taxation, it should be remembered that blockchain technology also holds great promise in terms of al- leviating today’s reporting problems and significantly improv- ing current reporting processes, since such transactions are traceable and irreversible.

4. The potential legal status of blockchain
which makes cryptocurrencies a significant asset
computer law & security review 34 (2018) 847–862 851
 tions for blockchain patents in 2017.
When we examine the
recent fillings regarding blockchain technology, it is seen that
tech giants like Qualcomm, IBM, MasterCard and Microsoft are
among the top ten of all applicants.
33
4.2. Could blockchain be considered as a payment system?
As mentioned above, the first use of blockchain was in
the realm of cryptocurrencies. These cryptocurrencies have
been at the forefront of the public discussion surrounding
blockchain technology since at least 2009, when two piz-
zas were sold for 10,000 BTC (Bitcoins),34 which would be
worth about 100 million USD today. The total value of the
cryptocurrency market currently fluctuates around 155 bil-
35
lion USD,
class and partly explains why these platforms have garnered most of the attention since the emergence of blockchain tech- nology. Bitcoins, Ethers (the cryptocurrency of the Ethereum blockchain) and numerous “altcoins” (short for alternative coins) have been transferred between cryptocurrency ac- counts countless times using blockchain technology. Some of these cryptocurrency transfers were made in exchange for goods and services. Thus, we observe that Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies have been accepted and used as payment methods in several markets for almost a decade. From a le- gal perspective, this brings up the fundamental question of whether the use of cryptocurrencies in payments constitutes a legal payment system.
 As blockchain is still a relatively new technology that has not (yet) been subject to a legal definition or standardization, the question of its legal status remains unanswered. This section discusses various potential legal definitions that blockchain could fall under and includes a general overview of the possi- ble uses of blockchain as a legal tool in legal disputes or other law-related transactions.
4.1. Could blockchain be considered as an asset?
Blockchain emerged as an open-source technology that does not belong to any single individual, corporation or en- tity. Therefore, one cannot assert a legal claim or title on blockchain technology itself and may only claim a right on a patentable invention or copyrightable work that is created through, based on or derived from blockchain, and only if the work or invention fulfills the applicable legal prerequisites.
However, it is crucial to note that applications running
on blockchain technology have gained increased significance
in recent years, and they are likely to be even more impor-
tant in the future. Thus, we are currently witnessing an in-
tense battle over patents relating to innovations running on
31
The first issue to be dealt with here is to clarify whether or not a cryptocurrency may be classified as “money.” To- day, debates concerning this complicated issue are still ongo- ing in various different legislative bodies, as well as among scholars and other experts, and there are diverging views on the fundamental question of whether cryptocurrencies con- stitute money. For instance, while Japan has already regulated cryptocurrencies as a payment method,36 the Turkish Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BDDK”) has stated that Bitcoin is not “money.”37 Therefore, a payment made through blockchain-based cryptocurrencies does not currently fall un- der any payment system in Turkish Law. As a result, a payment made using Bitcoins in Turkish law would not be considered as

a payment made through “a payment system” in legal terms, which would have fallen under the supervision of the BDDK.
Another factor that should be taken account is that, since blockchain technology enables different kinds of assets to be exchanged on the blockchain system, regulations might have to be implemented or renewed in such a way as to allow such asset exchanges to qualify as “payments” in return for “trans- fers of ownership or a right to use.” In the current legal envi- ronment, the exchange/transfer of an ownership over a piece of land or a car or a patent in an electronic environment is not covered by any traditional electronic storage/record keep- ing system (i.e. databases of the IP Offices). These records do not have the ability to react automatically in cases such as the payment of the price of the land. The traditional systems “change” the title of the owner when it is required, instead of a direct “transfer” of the ownership to the purchaser. However, since blockchain technology is able to process such transac- tions, it provides “exchange” of the title in return of the pay- ment instead of “change” of the title in case of payment infor- mation provided. Therefore, blockchains should be regulated in such a way to ensure that not only money but also the trans- fer of other assets on the blockchain are also covered. In that case, transactions related to intellectual property rights (“IPR”) and the transfer of IPR assets might be carried out in an elec- tronic environment using blockchain technology.

4.3. Could blockchain be considered an “Intermediary Service” in terms of E-commerce?
Blockchain has been built to facilitate the exchange of as- sets between peers. As such, platforms that rely on blockchain technology might also fall under the definition of “intermedi- ary service providers.”
Intermediary service providers have been defined and reg-
• ‘at a distance’ means that the service is provided without the parties being simultaneously present,
• ‘by electronic means’ means that the service is sent initially and received at its destination by means of electronic equipment for the processing (including digital compression) and storage of data, and entirely transmitted, conveyed and received by wire, by radio, by optical means or by other electromagnetic means,
• ‘at the individual request of a recipient of services’ means that the service is provided through the transmission of data on individual request.
In line with the foregoing definition, the services that are already provided through blockchain technology (e.g., asset transfers, smart contract executions, storage services, etc.) or will be provided in the future (e.g., license agreements, vot- ing services, management of the ownership of property, etc.) might be considered as “information society services.” Since blockchain technology may very well fall under the scope of this definition (considering the current and potential services provided via this technology), we will now proceed to an as- sessment of whether anyone could be legally liable for the ser- vices provided through such blockchain platforms and, if so, who the liable party might be.
According to Article 3 of the Directive 2000/31/EC, a service provider is defined as “any natural or legal person providing an information society service.” Therefore, it can easily be observed that any natural or legal person providing such services on a blockchain platform would fall within the scope of this def- inition, and thus would be considered and treated as a ser- vice provider. However, as to the assessment of liability, such assessment must be made according to Section 4 of the Di- rective 2000/31/EC, where the liability of intermediary service providers is regulated. Article 12 of the Directive 2000/31/EC states that:
Member states shall ensure that the service provider is not liable for the information transmitted, on condition that the provider: (a) does not initiate the transmission; (b) does not select the re- ceiver of the transmission; and (c) does not select or modify the information contained in the transmission.
In light of this rule, although there may be exceptions in specific circumstances, service providers of the services deliv- ered by means of blockchain technology generally qualify as “intermediary service providers,” and thus they should not be held liable for the information transmitted through the nodes involved in the blockchain, since they act as “mere conduits” for such information.
The relevant Turkish laws on this matter are in line with the existing rules in the European Union, and thus, a similar conclusion may be reached with respect to the treatment of this issue in Turkey. According to the Law No. 6563 on the Reg- ulation of Electronic Trade, services relating to asset transfers, smart contract executions, storage, license agreements, voting or management of the ownership of property, which are pro- vided to users by employing blockchain technology, may fall under the scope of this regulation. Article 2 of the Law No. 6563 defines an “electronic trade” as “any and all kinds of commer- cial activity processed on an online electronic platform with- out any physical interference.” Therefore, it is clear that the services mentioned in this definition, particularly IP services,
38
To understand whether the use of blockchain can fall un- der the scope of Directive 2000/31/EC, one must first assess whether the services provided (or likely to be provided) by the platform are in line with the definition of these services in the Directive. Article 3(a) of the aforementioned Directive, which provides a definition for “information society services,” refers back to Article 1 of the Directive 98/34/EC,39 which de- fines a service as:
any Information Society service, that is to say, any service nor- mally provided for remuneration, at a distance, by electronic means and at the individual request of a recipient of services.
For the purposes of this definition:


will fall within its scope, and thus the providers of such ser- vices will be deemed as “service providers” according to the Law No. 6563.
In light of this assessment, there is no ambiguity as to whether these service providers (such as the Ethereum Foun- dation) would be liable for the information they have trans- mitted while performing these services. According to Article 9 of the Law No. 6563, since such service providers will most likely be treated as “intermediary service providers,” they will not be legally liable for the information transmitted.
However, under Turkish Law, they are not totally exempt from liability either. The liability of intermediary service providers is also regulated through bylaws. According to the Bylaw Regarding Service Providers and Intermediary Service Providers in Electronic Trade, an intermediary service provider has certain obligations and liabilities with respect to the “record keeping,” “orders,” “order confirmations” and “protec- tion of personal data,” the details of which are beyond the scope of this paper.
4.4. Possible use of blockchain as a legal tool in legal disputes or other law-related transactions
Certain distinctive features of blockchain technology, partic- ularly data integrity, verification and public transparency of transactions, may either prevent or contribute to the resolu- tion of some legal disputes, since this technology can be used for the purposes of proof, confirmation or validation of legal transactions.
As explained above, blockchain records are time-stamped, immutable, and traceable. These unique characteristics of blockchain records are frequently brought up in discussions of blockchain technology because these are the core fea- tures that establish and indicate the trustworthiness of such records.
From a legal perspective, this is perhaps the most crucial aspect of blockchain technology, since it is extremely impor- tant for legal practitioners to be in possession of trustworthy records when making an argument or a decision in legal pro- ceedings. Blockchain technology may have a substantial ef- fect on legal practice in this respect. It is possible that, in the coming years, blockchain records will frequently be submit- ted to the courts as evidence and provide a novel and reliable method of proof.
As to the current EU law, the interpretation of Regulation No. 910/201440 on “electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC” concerning blockchain technology is thought pro- voking. According to Article 3 of the Regulation No. 910/2014:
• ‘electronic time stamp’ means data in electronic form which binds other data in electronic form to a particular time;
• ‘electronic registered delivery service’ means a service that makes it possible to transmit data between third parties by elec- tronic means and provides evidence relating to the handling of the transmitted data, including proof of sending and receiving the data, and that protects transmitted data against the risk of
loss, theft, damage or any unauthorized alterations; establishing
evidence that the latter data existed at that time;
• ‘trust service’ means an electronic service normally provided for remuneration which consists of: (a) the creation, verification, and validation of electronic signatures, electronic seals or electronic time stamps, electronic registered delivery services and certifi- cates related to those services, or (b) the creation, verification and validation of certificates for website authentication; or (c) the preservation of electronic signatures, seals or certificates related
to those services;
• ‘electronic signature’ means data in electronic form which is at-
tached to or logically associated with other data in electronic form and which is used by the signatory to sign.
In light of the aforementioned definitions, it may easily be argued that blockchain records fall within the scope of all of these definitions. Although there is no court decision at hand, it may nevertheless be contended that, under the cur- rent regulations, a blockchain record would be considered as an “electronic signature” and thus have the same/equivalent legal effect as a handwritten signature. Furthermore, the time stamp contained in a blockchain record may be deemed as an “electronic time stamp” under the scope of the Regulation No. 910/2014.
4.5. Smart contracts
One should not judge “smart contracts” merely by their name and erroneously conclude that they are contracts from a le- gal perspective simply because they are colloquially referred to as “contracts.” The actual legal status conferred on a smart contract can vary from one jurisdiction to another depending on the relevant legislation, and it may differ on a case-by-case basis depending on the subject matter of the contract. In the Turkish legal system, a written and signed paper contract is, in principle, not required to enter into a valid contractual agree- ment. According to Article 12 of the Turkish Code of Obliga- tions, the “validity of a contract is not dependent on any form, unless stated otherwise by law.” As per the provisions of Ar- ticle 12 regarding contracts in matters that do not have any form requirement by law, a Turkish Court may very well deem a smart contract to be a binding contract. Furthermore, it may also be very appealing (from a legal point of view) to have a verifiable and immutable record of a blockchain transaction, which can be used to establish or prove the existence of such contracts.
Similar to Turkish Law, there is also (in principle) no spe- cific form requirement for the validity of a contractual agree- ment in EU Law. In Article 11 of the United Nations Conven- tion on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (“CISG”), it is stated that “a contract of sale need not be concluded in or evidenced by writing and is not subject to any other require- ment as to form. It may be proved by any means, including witnesses.” Moreover, in the Principles of European Contract Law (“PECL”), which is a set of model rules drawn up by lead- ing contract law scholars in Europe, it is stipulated in Article 2:101 that “a contract need not to be concluded or evidenced in writing nor is it subject to any other requirement as to form.”
In light of these two provisions, it can be said that, for con- tracts relating to matters that are not subject to any form re-

quirement, the mere existence of a smart contract is binding and effective for the parties to that contract. Furthermore, the record of the smart contract on the blockchain can and should be deemed as sufficient proof of the existence of such a con- tract by the courts or other judicial authorities.
Another effective application of smart contracts might oc-
cur in the area of dispute resolution. Since it is easier than
ever before to authenticate a record with blockchain technol-
ogy and since such records are immutable, parties who are
faced with a blockchain-related dispute might transmit the
facts of their case in a simple and verifiable way to a dis-
interested third party within the blockchain, and then make
41
courts or otherwise challenging the order later.
Today, there are several technologies that are being used in legal procedures that allow parties as well as judges to create or assess different types of proofs (i.e., electronic signatures, electronic time stamps, watermarking etc.). As technology ad- vances and as judicial authorities become better acquainted with blockchain technology, it seems likely that it will be just a matter of time before a blockchain record is recognized and treated as valid evidence/proof by a court. Since blockchain records are immutable and cryptographically secure, there is no reason for any court or other judicial/governmental author- ity to disallow or reject a blockchain record as proof, except in cases where one country, authority, or person owns 51% of the mining capacity. This would otherwise give this party the power to manipulate the records by influencing the consensus
reached by the addition of each record.
However, while making such an assessment, the unfavor-
able reputation of blockchain technology and the public re- lations challenges that are facing blockchains must also be taken into account. Blockchain technology was first intro- duced to the public via cryptocurrencies, which were fre- quently used in illegal trades in their early years. It is no se- cret that some of these cryptocurrencies are still commonly used in Darknet42 markets. In light of this negative publicity, it will be a difficult challenge for blockchain technology to gain widespread acceptance or adoption by consumers or the pub- lic at large.
Moreover, since blockchain technology is still in the early stages of development, this creates certain difficulties with re- spect to implementing regulations in the blockchain realm. Some features of the technology have not yet emerged and others will function differently in the coming years. There- fore, it is quite normal and predictable that even governments who view blockchain technology favorably will continue to ap- proach it cautiously for the time being.
41 Abramowicz, Michael, Cryptocurrency-Based Law, Arizona Law Review 58 (2016), p. 359.
42 Monero to Replace Bitcoin for Darknet Ransomware, Experts Predict, https://darkwebnews.com/deep- web/ ransomware-monero-bitcoin/, last accessed on May 6, 2018.
5. Blockchain’s potential areas of use in IP law
Blockchain platforms are decentralized and immutable by the very nature of the underlying technology. Furthermore, as dis- cussed in the previous section, there is a substantial possi- bility that blockchain records may gain widespread recogni- tion and achieve legal status in the eyes of judicial authorities, intellectual property offices and other governmental institu- tions in the future. Therefore, the combination of these two factors provides IP Offices, governmental organizations and courts with an opportunity to improve their operations and procedures, by employing blockchain technology to achieve faster and more cost-effective recordkeeping in a more secure environment.
In fact, some blockchain platforms are already showing their prospects and proving their potential with respect to the management of intellectual property rights. Companies such as UJO,43 which is an open platform that uses blockchain tech- nology to create a transparent and decentralized database of rights and rights owners, and automates royalty payments us- ing smart contracts and cryptocurrency, have already begun to emerge. These companies enable their users to use blockchain technology to demonstrate the existence and uniqueness of their creations, along with giving them the opportunity to cre- ate smart contracts to license these creations.
Furthermore, blockchain technology is capable of and well
suited to solving a number of problems with respect to the en-
forcement of IP rights. Since the technology in question pro-
vides an easy way to demonstrate and prove the existence and
uniqueness of a product, it also enables enforcement authori-
ties easily to detect counterfeit products. In fact, various IP Of-
fices have already started to work on this matter. For example,
the EUIPO (European Union Intellectual Property Office) has
launched a “blockchain hackathon” aimed at proof-of-concept
projects in order to discover how blockchain technology might
be used by enforcement authorities to create the next level of
44
employed in cooperation with another promising technology, artificial intelligence (“AI”), particularly domain-specific arti- ficial intelligence. In the realm of IP rights, such cooperation may allow the registration process to be completed by the sys- tem itself, with almost no human involvement or input. For instance, the patent registration process and opposing to de- signs and trademarks might be handled exclusively by the co- operation of AI and blockchain technology. In the future, if the CAD files45 of patents, designs and trademarks are required to be uploaded to a public or private blockchain, the data stored in such a blockchain will be available to be used by the relevant
43 Seehttps://ujomusic.com/,lastaccessedonApril3,2018.
44 See https://euipo.europa.eu/ohimportal/web/observatory/ blockathon, EUIPO Blockathon, anti-counterfeiting blockchain competition, last accessed on May 7, 2018.
45 “CAD is an image file format used by AutoCAD. AutoCAD was created by AutoDesk, and creates 2-D and 3-D designs. CAD files hold information for these images, as well as drafting informa- tion. CAD stands for Computer Aided Design.” See http://whatis. techtarget.com/fileformat/CAD-AutoCAD-drawing-database-file, last accessed on May 7, 2018.
 At a minimum, such a dispute resolution system would lower the costs for con- sumer disputes concerning small amounts, compared to sub- mitting their disputes to arbitration specialists or applying to the courts for a legal resolution. Furthermore, since the resolution of such a dispute would also be recorded on the blockchain, it would preserve the option of appealing to the It is also worth noting that blockchain technology

AI program. Certain IP assessments, such as the “likelihood of confusion” evaluation in trademark cases or the “existence of an inventive step” assessment in a patent application might be performed by AI-based software. As explained above, with all the CAD files of the registered IPR at hand and available for use on the blockchain, the aforementioned software will have all the information necessary to make such an assess- ment with speed and accuracy.
5.1. Registration of IP rights through blockchain
Although copyright is automatically granted with the creation of a work in civil law, other IP rights such as patents, trade- marks or designs, can only be established pursuant to a reg- istration process. The process of registration for an IP right is often complicated and costly. Furthermore, in most cases, registration only enables the right holder to enforce his/her IP rights in the country in which the intellectual property right is registered. Considering the global nature of commerce, this limitation is not suitable or adequate to the needs of right holders, particularly in light of the rapid pace of commer- cial life in the modern economic system. Blockchain tech- nology might once again be the key that could unlock IP rights by making the registration process much easier, faster and cost-effective, and thus alleviating the procedural and enforcement-related burdens faced by IP right holders.
5.1.1. Mobile applications replacing large institutions
Both in civil- and common-law countries, industrial property rights are subject to registration. Although the procedures and requirements for registering an intellectual property right dif- fer among jurisdictions, these differences would not affect blockchain’s disruption of the traditional registration process. In the following section, the issue of whether blockchain tech- nology will be able to succeed in changing the traditional method of registration will be addressed.
As touched upon in previous sections, the registration pro- cess for industrial property rights can be carried out au- tonomously with the help of blockchain technology. However, it should be noted that this innovative approach works differ- ently depending on the particular type of IP right that is being registered.
In the European Union, there are three main requisites for
an invention to be patentable. These are (i) being new, (ii) in-
volving an inventive step, and (iii) being susceptible of industrial ap-
the cooperation of an AI-based software and blockchain technology.
For yet another example of the applicability and usefulness of blockchain technology in registering and enforcing IP rights, consider the use of Computer Aided Designs (“CAD”). Taking a photograph of a design from three different angles is suf- ficient to create a CAD. Such a CAD could be uploaded to a blockchain-based app that could search the entire database (which might very well comprise all designs registered in the history of the trademark regime) for similar designs and the design right could be granted or denied using an AI-based as- sessment tool. Moreover, if patent records were also stored as CADs, the AI-based software could search the entire database and reach an assessment with respect to patent applications as well. Although we would not expect such a fully automated system (based on the collaborative use of blockchain technol- ogy and AI-based software) to gain widespread adoption in the next 10–15 years, it would not surprise us to see blockchains and AI-based software being employed to facilitate this as- sessment procedure for humans. If all the patents that have already been granted were stored in the blockchain as CAD files, a tool in the form of an AI-based software would have all the information it might need to demonstrate to the patent officer (making the patentability assessment) how similar the invention is to all other patented products in the relevant field.
As for designs and trademark, the use of blockchain tech-
nology might be even more advantageous and beneficial in
those cases. Considering that designs today are mostly cre-
ated and refined by using computers, the assessment of
whether the design in a trademark application is similar or
identical to an already registered one might be carried out by
computers. In the same vein, the assessment of the “likeli-
hood of confusion” regarding trademarks might also be han-
dled without any human involvement or input. In most of the
civil-law countries including the members of EU and Turkey,
there is no ex officio assessment in the registration process as
to whether a design is identical or similar to any other reg-
istered design or whether a trademark would create a likeli-
hood of confusion. For applicants who take advantage of the
Fast Track Application Process of the European Union Intel-
lectual Property Office, the application process is online and
autonomous and a software-based tool called “eSearch” only
Blockchain technology holds significant promise as
Furthermore, it is possible to register a trademark or a design
with a CAD file presented to the IP Registries since EUIPO’s
Design View tool allows applicants to upload CAD files of the
plication.
to making the process of assessing these requirements much more autonomous, and perhaps even obviating the need for human involvement completely. If the databases that are used or consulted by patent offices during the assessment process are kept in a secure blockchain to which all such authori- ties have access, the assessment of whether an invention ful- fills the novelty requirement might be accomplished through
designs. on.
48
Thus, there is no need to examine the design hands
 checks to see if the procedural elements have been fulfilled.
47
All of these innovations are one step closer and possible with blockchain technology. Apart from the ease of the regis- tration process itself, not having to involve or interact with any institution or representative to protect one’s IP rights seems like an enormous benefit for creative minds. Once an objec- tion or challenge is raised to a patent or trademark (i.e., when


an opposition is made), the evaluation procedure would start.
There are already some existing tools and databases that are
available to intellectual property offices to be used when eval-
uating the similarity of a particular patent/trademark to an
existing one. For instance, the EUIPO provides the DesignView
and TMview applications to check the databases of the EU
EUIPO, European Patent Office, United States Patent and Trade-
mark Office, United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office and
Turkish Patent Office). As to the operational part of these insti-
tutions, the costs of maintaining and updating such systems
are considerable. For instance, the EUIPO requires an annual
budget of more than 11 million Euros just for the maintenance
51
Member States and the EUIPO.
For example, TMview can
Along with these substantial costs, a
be used to check the availability of a trademark name, find
out the goods and services protected by competitors’ trade-
marks and receive updates on selected trademarks for change
of status, change of name and end of opposition period. Sim-
50
ilarly, WIPO provides a database for designs.
database only includes the designs that have Hague registra- tions and information provided by the participating national offices, and thus, it cannot be deemed as complete. Since there are different databases in various informational “silos,” blockchain technology can help bridge the gap and provide a single, unified database for designs. Such a database would also foster and facilitate the processing of oppositions. The CAD files contained within the database could be searched by software (similar to the one discussed in the patent section above), and the opposition process might thereby be handled autonomously and much more efficiently.
5.1.1.1. Advantages The possible future adoption and imple- mentation of blockchain technology by IPR registries might bring with it significant advantages. First of all, the biggest po- tential (and the most beneficial scenario) for the adoption of blockchain is the development of a fully automated IPR regis- tration process that would make it possible to assert one’s IP rights without human intervention or even requiring an insti- tution. However, we must admit that it is very unlikely such implementation will be finalized within the next 5–10 years, even in countries like USA, China, Germany and Japan that are viewed as pioneers of blockchain technology. But, once again, we must emphasize that blockchain technology is capable of providing great benefits even on the way to final implementa- tion, which it can achieve by facilitating the registration pro- cess (i.e., making it faster and lowering the costs of registra- tion). Finally, as discussed above, blockchain can help legal practitioners and right holders to protect and enforce their rights by offering an easier method of providing proof to the IP courts.
5.1.2. Registration without a middle man
Today, intellectual property systems in all jurisdictions are highly dependent on the IP offices and limited by the capa- bilities of those offices. These institutions keep and safeguard the records pertaining to such rights, and they try to handle a huge amount of very sensitive data (e.g., statistics from the

As mentioned above, the registration and renewal of an IP right is expensive. This is the main reason that right holders usually choose to register their IP rights with only one or per- haps a couple of registries. This, in turn, results in the right holder’s IP rights not being protected in the countries where those rights have not been registered. In such a scenario, the right holder is often forced to lodge and pursue an “unfair competition” claim in case of an IP infringement. The param- eters of an unfair competition claim are of a different nature and can often be more complex than an IP infringement claim, which imposes additional legal and financial burdens on the person who is trying to protect his/her IP rights.
This unfortunate situation mainly arises due to the com- plexity and significant cost burdens of different registration proceedings. However, with blockchain technology, the ques- tion of whether the intellectual property system must be de- pendent on an IP registry could be answered differently than it has been up to now. With blockchain technology, the functions performed by large institutions could be carried out by simple smartphone applications. In that scenario, the cost of regis- tering an IP right would fall considerably, thereby enabling IP right holders to register their patents and trademarks in nu- merous different countries via easy-to-use, blockchain-based mobile or web applications.
5.1.1.2. Challenges Even though blockchain technology holds great promise and might provide many benefits, there are still some challenges facing the system. The first one is a general- ized concern stemming from the negative publicity surround- ing existing blockchains (i.e., cryptocurrencies) and affecting the adoption rate of the underlying technology in almost every sector. Furthermore, since blockchain technology is advancing rapidly and bringing immense changes to many sectors, it is
of patent applications.
patent registration application (or opposition) often necessi- tates the presence of a representative or lawyer, entails com- plicated procedures, and requires sophisticated “earlier use” research. It is self-evident that most of these activities and requirements do not advance the main goal or primary mis- sion of intellectual property law, which is fostering innova- tion and creativity. The cost of registering and renewing an IP right is dependent on the aforementioned factors, and these costs rise as the procedures become more complicated and time-consuming. It is undeniable that if the costs associated with these activities were lowered by implementing a much simpler and quicker registration process, the goal of foster- ing innovation and creativity through IP laws could be realized much more easily and effectively.

viewed with suspicion and concern, as with earlier technolog- ical revolutions that promised to change the world. Finally, we should keep in mind that technology, in general, is quite com- plex and often hard to understand in technical terms, which exacerbates the general public suspicion and resistance that such technologies often encounter.
Additionally, as we have noted before, blockchain is con- stantly evolving and, a decade after its invention, it is still in the early stages of development. Due to the nature of the underlying technology, a blockchain’s rules are always pre- defined. For example, the rules for Bitcoin specify that there will be only 21 million Bitcoins ever mined. These types of limiting rules also make the timing of moving such trans- actions from a traditional database to the blockchain a very tricky matter. These shifts certainly shouldn’t be delayed too much, but they cannot be implemented too quickly either, since blockchain technology is still besieged by a number of unsolved problems as explained in Section 3 above.
5.2. Management of IP rights
Blockchain technology has significant implications for some aspects of the management of IP rights as well. In the modern IP system, certain activities involving the management of IP rights (such as licensing, the identification of a right holder, IPR infringement investigations, among others) are mostly conducted by third parties. Blockchain technology can once again be useful in this context by removing the need for such third parties and lowering the costs of the management of IP rights. Now, the most beneficial effect of blockchain technol- ogy concerns the management of copyright, as blockchains create and open up completely new markets for the right hold- ers while also enabling them to collect their royalties directly from the users as explained in the following section.
5.2.1. Copyright management by right holders–licensing via smart contracts
One of the possible applications of blockchain technology is related to the management of copyrights. Once a creation or work that is subject to copyright (such as a piece of music or writing) comes into existence, a bundle of IP rights is auto- matically created as well, and these rights can be owned by different legal identities. After the creation (and throughout the years of existence) of these rights, the difficulty of identi- fying their rightful owners and the calculation of the different amounts of payments due to each right holder when the cre- ation/work is used constitutes a serious challenge for the right holders and the licensees of the copyrighted work.
The relevant records today are held by either governmen- tal bodies, private companies or right holder organizations. However, these databases are mostly not interoperable and are not always public either. The cost of maintaining a public and interoperable database can exceed the available resources of some of these organizations as well. The security of these records is also in question and the IP rights are mostly man- aged by outside parties (i.e., not by the right holders them- selves). As a result, the management of these rights is costly, complicated and time-consuming.
A solution to the aforementioned problems might be pos- sible with the adoption of a blockchain registration system,
where the rights related to the copyrighted work would consti- tute a block in the chain. Creating such a system from scratch would be cheaper and easier (in terms of overcoming its tech- nical challenges) compared to transforming the current sys- tem into a public, interoperable one. Additionally, the infor- mation located in the blockchain would be available for every- one. In other words, every person possessing the blockchain application would become a node and, while being able to see the whole chain, would also contribute to the security of the system by acting as a node (and a server) without incurring any server costs. Therefore, the costs associated with identi- fying the right holders would be reduced considerably, since the time required for processing this information might only be a couple of minutes as all the records would be stored in, for instance, a smart phone or desktop application and the secu- rity of the system could be maintained at a significantly lower cost as well.
Another vital benefit of this system is that the IP rights would be managed by their owners themselves rather than by outside parties. In addition to the creation of the work and its IP rights, the right holders would also be able to pro- duce the smart contracts that would be used in possible fu- ture transactions concerning the copyrighted creation. By hav- ing such contracts running on a blockchain, the processing of such transactions would be much simpler and, through this system, the right owners would be able to increase their earn- ings considerably, as transaction costs would be substantially reduced.
As an example, consider someone using an online video platform such as Vimeo who might want to use a copyrighted song or a scene from a movie in their own video creation. Now, either they would be prevented from using someone else’s copyrighted work by the platform or they would be given no- tice to take the video down when it is detected by the right owner. However, a blockchain system that included a smart contract in one of its blocks would enable Vimeo or the right holder to ask the Vimeo content creator whether they would like to sign the smart contract and be able legally to use the song/movie scene in their work. In such a scenario, the con- tent creator would be able to use the copyrighted work in a matter of seconds and Vimeo (or any other online platform) and the right holder(s) would both receive compensation for their parts as well. Vimeo would be paid for its services as the online platform enabling this transaction, and the right holder(s) would be paid for the use of their original, copy- righted work.
For licensing and transfer of the registered IP rights, the
registration of the licensing/transfer agreement itself is also
an issue whose rules vary among jurisdictions depending on
the applicable legislation. For instance, in the European Union,
this issue is regulated under Chapter III of the European Patent
Convention for patents.
pean Patent Office, upon a request from an interested party, will register a transfer or a license of a patent. For the license

agreements regarding designs, Article 32/4 of the Regulation
of a blockchain. For example, in the case of the Hyperledger56 blockchain, since it is run by the Linux Foundation, the answer to the foregoing question might indeed be the Linux Founda- tion,57 which will bear the obligations put forth by the DC Di- rective as an “operator of a means of communication.”
With regard to the qualifications a smart consumer con- tract must possess, Article 4 to the DC Directive indicates that the consumer must be provided with the prior information stated in the Article, including:
(i) the identity of the supplier (along with its address in cases of payment);
(ii) main characteristics of the goods and services;
(iii) the price including all taxes (which may be tricky in the case of blockchains, where contracts are concluded in var-
ious jurisdictions within seconds); (iv) delivery costs;
(v) the arrangements for payment, delivery or performance; and
(vi) the existence of a right to withdrawal, among others.
In the future, these requirements will probably be managed
by smartphone applications that will be built on blockchains.
In such cases, it is more likely that the entities behind these
applications (i.e., their owners/creators) will be subject to
these obligations, but not the operators of the blockchains.
Particularly for the requirements set forth in the DC Direc-
tive concerning the right of withdrawal, a blockchain system
where a transaction can easily be undone will have to be cre-
ated. Due to immutable nature of Blockchain, there might be
the need of a blockchain, based on and designed with differ-
ent principles in a way both ensuring the trust to the records
and the ability to withdrawal when needed. In other words,
a record in a blockchain, intended to be used in IP, should
provide the options to edit, rewrite and/or remove blocks of
information without harming the immutable nature of the
Blockchain. The issue is taken into consideration by the de-
velopers and solutions in that regard might be provided in the
coming years, although there is no solution offered until this
58
tion on Distance Contracts”59 (“DC Regulation”) is a verbatim adoption of the EU Directive No 97/7/EC discussed above. As per Article 4/e of the DC Regulation, distance contracts are de- fined as:
Contracts which are concluded between the seller or provider and the consumer without being physically at the same place at the
(EC) No. 6/2002 has put a similar regulation forth.
53
In Turkish Law, however, approval by a notary public is mandatory for transfer agreements regarding patents and de- signs. According to Article 148/4 of the Law No. 6769 on Indus- trial Property Rights (“Law No. 6769”):
Legal transactions shall be made in a written form. The validity of transfer agreements is subject to being approved by a notary public.
In light of this article, every transfer of a patent or design in Turkey must be approved by a notary public to create a record of the transfer. Furthermore, Article 61/2-g of the “By- law on the Application of the Industrial Property Law” (“By- law”) states that the registrar records include the records of the license and transfer information. This scheme is once again fit for disruption by blockchain technology, which could allow blockchains to replace notary publics and IP Offices, who are the intermediaries in this scenario. By doing so, the costs of these transactions might be reduced considerably and records could be kept in a more secure environment, while also re- moving the need for paperwork and thus allowing a faster op- eration process.
Another aspect of licensing through smart contracts that merits our attention is the assessment with regard to “dis- tance contracts.” This issue will come up in cases where con- sumers license music or similar copyrighted works through smart contacts. In EU legislation, distance contracts are regu- lated under Directive No. 97/7/EC54 on the Protection of Con- sumers in Respect of Distance Contracts (“DC Directive”). As per Article 2/1 of the DC Directive:
‘distance contract’ means any contract concerning goods or ser- vices concluded between a supplier and a consumer under an organized distance sales or service-provision scheme run by the supplier, who, for the purpose of the contract, makes exclusive use of one or more means of distance communication up to and including the moment at which the contract is concluded.
In light of this definition, a smart contract concluded be- tween a supplier and a consumer would be subject to the DC Directive, since smart contracts “work by changing the state of a distributed ledger on every node on the network.”55 In that case, the blockchain running the smart contract might also fall within the scope of the definition in Article 2/5 of the DC Di- rective as the “operator of a means of communication.” However, in such a case, the regulators must address the question of who can be held responsible for the operation or functioning

same time, with respect to a system for distance marketing of the goods and services, with the usage of the distance communication tools until and at the time of the conclusion of the contract.
According to this definition, a smart contract regarding the licensing of an IP right would be subject to the DC Regula- tion in Turkey. In addition, again similarly to the DC Directive, blockchain technology would be considered as a tool for dis- tant communication within the scope of the DC Regulation, as per Article 4/h. In that regard, we observe that the same requirements that are set forth by the DC Directive are also applicable in terms of Turkish Law.
Because of the foregoing discussions and explanations, we conclude that a smart contract must have at least the follow- ing features to be compliant with the distance contract regu- lations in the EU and in Turkey:
• The interface conveying the smart contract to the con- sumer must also provide the prior information set forth in Article 4 of the DC Directive and Article 5 of the DC Regu- lation to the consumer.
• The smart contract must include an option to allow con- sumers to withdraw from the contract within the time specified in the applicable regulation.
• Thesellerorprovidermustkeepthedataregardingtheful- fillment of the foregoing obligations for the period stated in the applicable regulation. (i.e., 3 years for the DC Regu- lation).


5.2.2. Examples from the marketplace
There are already a number of initiatives that have been launched in this regard. An important project that deserves attention is the Open Music Initiative (“OMI”), which was an- nounced by the Berklee College of Music in Boston, Mas- sachusetts. This incentive aims to:
build an open sourced platform with a shared protocol, centered
on cryptography, distributed consensus, and interoperability with
future and existing systems. Instead of constructing a simple
repository of ownership and attribution, OMI seeks to create a
self-sufficient system that works with both open and proprietary
Source data

In other words, OMI aims to build a database in the form of a blockchain. The problem that OMI seeks to solve is the proper identification of the right holders. The underlying be- lief (and principle) of this project is that blockchain technol- ogy might make it possible to create a repository, which can then be used in the identification of the right holders. OMI also plans to build its own Application Programming Interface (API) in order to allow other products and services to use the repository. This would facilitate the use of the repository in IP transactions and enforcement activities as well.
Another novel business worth discussing is the Ujo Creator
Ethereum blockchain and its stated goal is to enable artists to be paid

directly by consumers. In the application, users can download music by paying with their Ethers, which is the cryptocurrency for the Ethereum blockchain. The platform describes itself as follows:
when fully realized, Ujo has the ability to rewire the music indus-
try, better serving the needs of artist and fans while also enabling
entrepreneurs and engineers, through our decentralized technical
foundation, to build products and services. We are putting power
62
Although the promise is lofty and inspiring, the questions of how to delete music and how to recover lost accounts on the service remain unanswered.
From a legal perspective, another issue, which remains un-
resolved, is the choice of law that will be applicable to smart
contracts. For traditional databases, jurisdictional matters are
much clearer, since such databases are usually located in a
single country. However, with blockchains, this issue becomes
more complicated because, once a smart contract is executed,
the status of every node in the system is changed regardless
of where those nodes are located. This necessitates a carefully
designed choice-of-law clause for smart contracts and obliges
the parties to a smart contract to ensure that any court likely
to hear a dispute arising out of a smart contract will honor the
63
5.3. Enforcement issues and the fight against counterfeits
The last (and perhaps most important) feature of an IP right is its enforceability. For IP rights to have any legal meaning, the right holders should be able to enforce their rights effectively in coordination with the police and customs officers. How- ever, from the perspective of an enforcement authority, one particular issue, namely counterfeiting, produces very high costs for the IP world. Customs and police officers do not have all the necessary tools or means to detect whether a good is authentic or not. Blockchain technology can once again be very helpful by serving as a trusted ledger in this area. Us- ing blockchains for the storage of information about goods would enable interested parties to check authenticity instan- taneously and in real-time, and this would be true not only for customs and police officers, but for the end-users as well.
In the modern globalized economy, the identification of
counterfeit goods is a significant issue, and a considerable
(and growing) portion of fake goods is transported to the EU
via small parcels. According to the Report on EU Customs En-
forcement of Intellectual Property Rights, published by the
European Commission in 2016, postal and courier traffic ac-
counted for 77% of all detentions in the enforcement of in-
back in the hands of the people, not the industry bigwigs.
choice of law rules chosen and implemented by the parties. According

intellectual property rights.
2015, customs authorities made over 81,000 detentions, con- sisting of a total of 43.7 million articles. Since such counter-

feit products are increasingly transported in small parcels, these procedures are becoming even more arduous and time- consuming.
A solution might be possible with the integration of the supply-chain information received from brands to a blockchain. Supply-chain management is one of the most cu- rial aspects of domestic and international trade. Most firms in the production sector already employ sophisticated systems aiming to control their supply chains. Throughout the years, these systems have become more and more advanced and in- creased in complexity. However, there are still some problems that cannot be easily addressed, let alone solved, by the cur- rent systems. Current supply-chain systems are usually not interoperable with retailers’ databases. In most cases, the re- tailer has to constantly check and control its stock, and when it is out (or about to run out) of the goods, it must send a re- quest for a new shipment.
Today, many goods contain unique barcodes, banderoles, QR codes or RFIDs (Radio Frequency ID). In the future, it is con- ceivable that installing a QR code on every product and regis- tering them all in a public blockchain (or several interoperable blockchains) would enable each interested party to trace and track the products even after they have been sold. It is easy to see that this would accelerate the speed of supply-chain man- agement. Information regarding the number of goods sold or in stock would be available in real time to the supplier and to the retailer, as well as any other interested parties. This would enable the supplier, who would be able to track the in- ventory for all of its retailers, to structure its production ca- pacity more accurately and gain much-needed flexibility with respect to market demand. It would also be considerably eas- ier and cost-effective in this scenario to conduct market re- search for each party. The adoption of such a system would also be relatively easy for a new retailer, since the adoption of the system would simply consist of opening a new wallet in the relevant blockchain. Additionally, the ability to track the goods even after they are sold would quickly provide informa- tion to the suppliers or retailers about the possible need for spare parts.
The reason why we do not currently have such a unified database system in place is that brands prefer to keep their proprietary data to themselves and maintain them in infor- mational “silos” rather than sharing them with each other or the public. Therefore, there is no interoperability between dif- ferent inventory databases, which is why consumers cannot simply open an app on their smartphones and scan the bar- code on a product to check whether the merchandise is au- thentic or not. In fact, this lack of interoperability also causes brands to suffer from the proliferation of counterfeits, since it is very difficult for customs officers to identify counterfeit products. As blockchain technology provides brands and right holders with the ability securely to place their data in a public ledger, this issue might become obsolete in the coming years, which would benefit both retailers and consumers.
Furthermore, blockchain technology should be analyzed in the context of other technologies. Today, various tagging technologies are rapidly developing as well. For instance, RFID technology might be employed in conjunction with a blockchain. In that scenario, if goods/merchandise are tagged with RFID and such tagging information is then placed in a blockchain, the detection and seizure of counterfeit products might become almost automated. The same technology that we use for toll collection can be used for detecting counterfeits as well. If the scanner of the RFID on a highway is connected to a blockchain, it can instantly check whether the goods inside a container passing through that highway are counterfeits or not.

6. Challenges
The main challenge facing the widespread adoption of blockchains for the enforcement of IP rights is the difficulty of explaining and understanding the complexities of the under- lying technology. Today, in most countries, even the challenges and intricacies of online counterfeiting have not yet been ad- equately examined or comprehended by the enforcement au- thorities. In light of this fact, it is not difficult to guess that getting enforcement authorities to use a cutting-edge technol- ogy such as blockchain to protect IP rights will require a vast amount of persuasion and training. The application(s) must be constructed in a way that is relatively simple and easy to use. This is a crucial attribute that such applications must have, considering the wide range of possible users and their varying levels of technological adeptness. Not everybody has the will, talent or desire to learn how to code in order to create a smart contract. Therefore, applications with simple and easy-to-use interfaces will be essential in this field.
Another significant challenge could arise out of the nature
of blockchain technology. The critics of the use of this tech-
nology in the field of intellectual property are mostly on the
65
 same page regarding this issue.
These critics agree that the
size of the data created would be enormous if this vision was
realized and copyright management was carried out by using
blockchain technology. Since the users of the system are also
the nodes of the system in a blockchain, each one of them
would need to store quite massive amounts of data. The solu-
tion to this problem may lie in the rapid development and im-
provement of the existing blockchain technology. In this con-
text, looking at past technological developments could pro-
vide us with a sense of hope, once we realize how the mean-
ing of “massive amounts of data” has changed in recent years.
A USB flash drive with 64 MB storage capacity was first intro-
duced in 2003, merely 15 years ago.
USB flash drives that can store up to two TB of data, which corresponds to a storage capacity that is more than 30,000 times bigger than the capacity offered by the most advanced USB flash drives just 15 years ago. Considering this exponen- tial growth in storage capacity in the past 15 years, it would not be unreasonable to predict that the question of “storage space” for global music data will one day become obsolete.


Nevertheless, at least for the time being, it is up to the soft- ware developers to address and resolve this issue.
From a legal perspective, the most difficult challenge to the adoption of blockchain technology for IP practice and enforce- ment appears to be the regulation of this technology. Since blockchain technology has been adopted quite rapidly and promises to bring about many changes, there are certain ar- eas in which it must be regulated before it is too late. How- ever, effectively regulating the technology in its early years is a significant challenge because the future of blockchain re- mains unknown. Therefore, apart from the social and tech- nical challenges blockchain will face, the legal challenges will also provide a considerable obstacle to its development and widespread adoption.
7. Conclusion
The ultimate aim of the intellectual property law is to foster innovation and creativity, through providing protection for in- tellectual property. The motivation to create something useful or beautiful lies within the lines of the law, giving individu- als certain rights to benefit from their creation while allowing them to provide the humanity with something new or better. The underlying question of this paper is whether blockchain technology can contribute to that target and if yes, how such contribution should be made.
Complex processes of registration, the requirement to reg- ister in different jurisdictions, the expertise required in the registration and opposition processes, the fees attached to these procedures and the hardship to manage the rights cre- ate impediments in the protection of IP rights and accord- ingly impairs creation and invention. Blockchain technology promises to overcome or at least minimize these challenges to a certain extent. The process of registration may be eased significantly by the adoption and recognition of the blockchain technology as a registry. Blockchain could be used as a unified database that enable anyone to reach out to the immutable, reliable information stored in there. These could support dif- ferent applications running on these blockchains to provide the ability to register without involvement of an authority and an application process. The global nature of blockchain may also help overcoming the issue of the requirement to regis- ter in different legislations and to deal with different proce- dures of these. Since the process would be carried out in rel- atively automated way, fees and expenses that could be in- curred would significantly increase. Finally, building a system, where the right-holders can control how they manage their IP in terms of contracting and collecting royalties may foster sig- nificantly the motivation behind creation and inventions and may play an important role in directing consumers from the counterfeit products to the original products through enhanc- ing accessibility of original IP to consumers.
Whilst the foregoing advantages and benefits of blockchain are remarkable, there are still various challenges ahead from a technical and legal aspect. Awareness and understanding of blockchain is low among the lawmakers, IP offices or lawyers yet and the society is hesitant on relying on this new technol- ogy. This seems to be the first obstacle to tackle. It is unde- niable that the technology gained much attention in recent
years but the characteristic of the attention is also impor- tant considering the number of the news popping out day by day about an ICO scam or usage of crypto-currencies in the black markets. Once the barrier of social acceptance is bro- ken, it is no surprise that blockchain will gain attention not only as a source of quick return investment but also as a tech- nology that may cause considerable benefit to many areas. At that point, regulations could be aiming at the best use of this technology rather than attempting to restrict or prohibit the technology or the products and services associated with the technology.
Some of the challenges discussed above can indeed only be solved by software developers and businesses and maybe it is even dangerous to involve legal minds to it too much. How- ever, we can make certain proposals for possible solutions to the legal challenges that are currently facing blockchains or that they might encounter in the future.
The first action that could be taken by regulators is to grant
legal status to blockchains and to define the standards that
blockchains will have to meet in order to receive such legal sta-
tus. The standardization work has already been commenced
by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
For example, ISO is currently working on its ICO/TC 307 stan-
 dards for blockchain and distributed ledger technologies.
67
Once the framework and rules of standardization are estab- lished and are available for use by the developers, the ball will then be in the regulators’ court to bestow blockchain with cer- tain legal status.
The standardization is also needed for the users (i.e. pub- lic, in most of the cases) since there are already variety of blockchains to be used in the market. The user must have the reliable information to choose the blockchain with the stan- dards defined by the authorities. In a way, authorities should help the users with their choice of applications and blockchain usage by creating widely accepted standards. That would lead users to proper application and blockchain for their use and motivate the developers to the end that they develop projects meeting the requirements of the standards.
As explained above in the discussion of the legal status that can be attributed to blockchain, there is no precedent on this issue provided by any court or IP office at this time. Neverthe- less, the law already enables individuals to present blockchain records as time-stamped evidence under both EU and Turk- ish law. From the perspective of IP law, the next logical step may be to start accepting blockchain records (that meet the criteria mentioned above) as evidence with respect to prior art claims. Once such claims are approved by the courts, right holders would be incentivized to start using blockchain in creating/preserving evidence for their IP claims. This would possibly lead to the creation of a blockchain (or blockchains) where a huge amount of data could be stored and these would constitute a unified database, which would be easily accessi- ble and could be managed with the cooperation of right hold- ers, IP offices and enforcement authorities. Subsequently, a legislative change that would allow certain blockchain regis- trations to be deemed as registrations by IP offices should be

mplemented, and by doing so, blockchain may finally be al- lowed to operate in the way that it should in the context of intellectual property law, and serve the goals of IP law effec- tively, as explained above.
It is also essential to consider the position of the blockchains with respect to existing regulations. There are numerous laws regulating the fields of communication and the internet. Sadly, most of these laws have been drafted and passed without considering the next layer of the internet or to future technologies. Therefore, some areas that are affected by blockchain technology are blank spots, legislatively speaking, and require effective regulation. However, the bigger problem may arise with respect to the areas that are already regulated. Such regulations may slow down the adoption or development
of blockchain technology; therefore, the first step that must be taken is accurately mapping blockchain’s potential effects and determining whether they fall under existing laws and, if so, how they are covered by such laws.
Ultimately, it is obvious that blockchain technology can be highly useful in terms of protecting IP rights. The long- term promise of the technology (i.e., to build a unified intel- lectual property system) is quite appealing and this opportu- nity should be given serious consideration by the authorities. However, dramatic changes and numerous obstacles await IP practitioners on the way to that promised land, and consider- ing the hardship of adopting the legal system with every tiny bit of it to the considerable effect of blockchain, getting there might need massive work and years full of discussions.

Secure and reliable blockchain-based eBook transaction system for self-published eBook trading

As eBook readers have expanded on the market, various online eBook markets have arisen as well. Currently, the online eBook market consists of at least publishers and online plat- form providers and authors, and these actors inevitably incur intermediate costs between them. In this paper, we introduce a blockchain-based eBook market system that enables self-published eBook trading and direct payments from readers to authors without any trusted party; because authors publish themselves and readers purchase directly from authors, neither actor incurs any intermediate costs. However, because of this trustless environment, the validity, ownership and intellectual property of digital contents cannot be verified and protected, and the safety of purchase transactions cannot be ensured. To address these shortcomings, we propose a secure and reliable eBook transaction system that satisfies the following security requirements: (1) verification of the ownership of each eBook, (2) confidentiality of eBook contents, (3) authorization of a right to read a book, (4) authentication of a legitimate purchaser, (5) verification of the validity and integrity of eBook contents, (6) safety of direct purchase transactions, and (7) preventing eBook piracy and illegal distribution. We provide practical cryptographic protocols for the proposed system and analyze the security and simulated performance of the proposed schemes.

An eBook, also known as an electronic or digital book, is a digitally released version of a book, often consisting of text and images and available on electronic devices. According to statista. com [1], e-books have become popular among American book readers– 20 percent of book readers in the United States stated that they read more eBooks than hard copy books, and 23 percent read about the same number of hard copy books and eBooks. In South Korea, many eBook specialized platforms including ridibooks [2], Millie [3], and Series [4] have recently launched. Demand for eBooks has been increased steadily, and the number of self-published eBooks has risen dramatically in the last decade. In 2017, there were a total of over one million print and eBooks self-published in the United States, of which 879,600 were print books and 129,600 were eBooks [5]. Currently, the eBook market system consists in essence of publishers,

online platform providers (or shops), and authors; the online eBook platform serves as a trusted party for secure distribution and management of digital contents. The platform con- tracts with the author or publisher and hosts the sales of the digital contents; then the sales rev- enue is distributed between the two. Therefore, an intermediate fee occurs for the publisher and distributor.
With the advent of YouTube, publishing, sharing and subscribing to personal creations has become very popular today. Even for eBook contents, a platform that anyone can freely pub- lish, share and sell personal eBook contents is necessary. Many web-novels in Korea, mostly serialized fiction, are published regularly two or three times a week. The first few series can be previewed for free, and after the story raises its awareness, the next series will have to be paid for subscription. An open eBook trading platform will allow more people to freely share and sell their personal novels. The goal of our research is to develop a real-time eBook trading plat- form over a peer-to-peer (P2P) network where anyone can publish their own eBook contents and buy a right to read the contents from authors. Because the authors publish themselves and receive direct payments from readers, authors incur no royalty costs for publishers, authors only pay a minimum fee for using the eBook platform, and readers benefit from lower book prices. Here, the most difficult issue is that the proposed model allows the sale of personal eBook contents rather than just sharing them, so the proposed model should be able to ensure the reliability of eBook contents, copyright protection and the safety of eBook purchase trans- actions. With emerging of the blockchain technology [6–15], the blockchain-based smart con- tract [16], data sharing [17], and DRM technology [18] have been proposed. The blockchain, a distributed database that maintains a continuously increasing list of ordered records, is trusted for correctness and availability because all data recorded in the blockchain is publicly validated.
In this paper, we introduce a secure and reliable blockchain-based eBook market system that enables self-published eBook trading and direct payments from readers to authors without outside trusted parties; users can be either authors or readers. However, owing to the trustless environment, no one can take responsibility not only for the validity, ownership, and intellec- tual property of digital contents but also for the safety of purchase transactions. Our proposed eBook market system satisfies the following security requirements: (1) verification of the own- ership of each eBook, (2) confidentiality of eBook contents, (3) authorization of a right to read a book, (4) authentication of a legitimate purchaser, (5) verification of the validity and integrity of eBook contents, (6) safety of direct purchase transactions, and (7) prevention of eBook piracy and illegal distribution.
The key strategies to achieve our goal are that (1) every eBook information containing the author information is digitally signed with the author’s private key, deployed over the network, and recorded on the blockchain named B_Chain; (2) every eBook content is encrypted with its own book key; (3) an eBook’s content is divided into many small book pieces and stored in a book repository as encrypted; (4) only a legitimate purchaser can obtain the book key and the set of encrypted pieces of the purchased book; (5) a buyer can restore a part of the content of a randomly selected book piece during the purchasing process and verify the validity and integ- rity of the content; (6) every eBook purchase transaction is signed by both the buyer and the author, deployed over the network, and recorded on the blockchain named C_Chain, and (7) every purchased eBook’s content is re-encrypted and stored with a new book key so that only the buyer’s service application can restore the content.
Since every eBook information is recorded on B_Chain and shared among users in a dis- tributed way, the ownership and copyright of the book can be publicly proved. Buyers and authors directly conduct the eBook purchase transactions, during which the buyer can validate the book’s content and the book key for access; the buyer requests a randomly selected piece of

book and decrypts it with the received book key to confirm the content. In addition, the system compares the hash value of the restored book piece with the registered hash value, thereby vali- dating both the book key and the eBook content during the purchasing process. The proposed challenge-and-response protocol combines both advantages of hash-based message authenti- cation and provable data possession (PDP) that generates proofs of possession for randomly selected sample data blocks. The system reveals only a randomly selected piece of book not the entire eBook content. With this revealing process, comparing the hash values is enough for the content verification, a complex homomorphic verifiable cryptographic technique used in the PDP is unnecessary. In addition, the buyer can verify if the revealed book texts make sense or not. It is very effective and suitable for real-time content verification.
When the buyer and the author complete the purchase transaction by mutual agreement, C_Chain for the transaction is updated, and deployed over the network so that no purchase transactions can be either forged or repudiated. The buyer with a valid purchase transaction recorded on C_Chain can download all the book pieces of the purchased eBook from the book repository. That is, if a buyer acquires only a book key during the book purchase process but does not complete the purchase process, a valid blockchain cannot be generated, and it is impossible for the buyer to obtain the eBook content from the book repository; that is, the book key alone is useless, which in turn protects the eBook content from a malicious buyer.
Traditional copyright protection technologies focus on detecting the data owner or tracking illegal distributers using with watermarking and fingerprinting techniques. In contrast, the proposed model protects the illegal distribution of copyrighted contents by preventing even legitimate buyers from accessing to the original content. All downloaded eBook contents are newly encrypted by the buyer’s service application and stored in the buyer’s local storage. In other words, buyers of the same eBook content receive differently encrypted copies of the book, and the book key they obtained during the eBook purchase is subsequently useless. Because the original plain content of the purchased eBook is neither exposed nor stored any- where, it is impossible for even the legal purchaser to redistribute or resale the original content to others. Even if an encrypted version stored in the buyer’s local storage is distributed to oth- ers, the other service applications cannot reveal the encrypted content because the service applications cannot produce a valid book key for the content.
Consequently, this paper provides a new real-time eBook trading platform that supports self-publishing and direct payments between users on a P2P network without trusted parties. The proposed model uses blockchain technology to effectively protect copyrights on paid con- tents, and securely manage direct payment transactions.

• All eBook information is publicly verified with B_Chain.
• All eBook purchase transactions are publicly verified with C_Chain.
• Only validated eBooks registered in B_Chain are uploaded to the book repository. Only legit- imate buyers can download eBooks from the book repository with their purchase transac- tions recorded in C_Chain. Thus, only verifiable eBooks are shared among users on the network and only legitimate buyers can obtain encrypted pieces of books for their purchased books.
The proposed model suggests a practical purchasing protocol with content verification suit- able for real-time services.
• The purchase process includes not only making a payment for the purchased book, but also securing the right to read the book. Therefore, validating the book key provided by the author and verifying the encrypted content stored in the book repository is essential to the


buyer. The proposed hash-based challenge-and-response protocol effectively resolves this issue without restoring the entire encrypted content before the purchase is completed.
• The purchasing process is interactive between the buyer and the author and requires signa- tures from both parties. Hence, a valid purchase transaction can only be created by mutual agreement between the author and buyer.
• The proposed model effectively prevents piracy and illegal distribution on paid content.
• All purchased eBook contents are stored re-encrypted in the buyer’s local device. Access to the original content of the purchased eBook is unavailable, which prevents from being cop- ied or distributed.
The rest of this paper proceeds as follows. In Section 2 and Section 3, we review related works and briefly describe the elliptic curve cryptography [19–21] closely associated with the security of our system. In Section 4, we provide concrete cryptographic protocols that satisfy all the requirements mentioned above. We analyze the security and efficiency of the proposed protocols in Section 5, briefly describing our implemented eBook transaction system including its average execution time for main operations such as eBook registration, purchase, eBook download and storage; we analyze the system according to the size of eBook content and
the level of difficulty used in the blockchain generation. Finally, we conclude our paper in Sec- tion 6.


Related work
Peer-to-peer (P2P) systems allow all peers to distribute and share data directly with each other by willingly contributing their resources. Since year 2003, P2P file sharing traffic has surpassed web traffic and has been continuously grown up. Many P2P systems including Napster, Gnu- tella, BitTorrent, and Skype have been developed and still widely used [22]. Because various types of copyrighted digital content are easily distributed and shared among peers on the net- work, many copyright protection technologies have been proposed to prevent the illegal distri- bution of copyrighted content to unauthorized users. Most copyright protection technologies exploit digital watermarking [23–25] and fingerprinting technologies [26–28]. Digital water- marking embeds a watermark into the content that can be used to check the source of the con- tent. The watermarking is classified into copyright watermarking and fingerprinting watermarking. The copyright watermarking inserts the copyright holder’s identification into the content in order to declare the copyright holder. But it cannot be used to trace an illegal distributer. On the other hand, the fingerprinting watermark insert a unique user identifica- tion into the content so that it can be used to track an illegal distributer [29]. A buyer-seller watermarking schemes [30–32] that incorporates both watermarking and fingerprinting mechanisms to protect the rights of both the buyer and the seller have been proposed. All of the above techniques are useful for detecting content owners or tracking illegal distributors, but do not prevent illegal distribution itself because the content copy holders can possess the same original contents in their local devices.
When accessing data (or content) stored on a remote peer or server, the integrity of the data should be verified first. That is, it is required to make sure that the remote server possesses the original data. There are three ways to prove the integrity of data stored in a remote server. The first is to check the hash value of data using the message authentication code (MAC) algo- rithm [33] or the hash function [34]. A verifier (or client) calculates the hash value of the origi- nal data and compares it with the hash value given from the remote server or with a previously calculated hash value. The main drawback of this approach is that it needs to access the entire


data to calculate the hash value. The second approach is to use a third-party auditor (TPA) [35], which carries out all auditing process. On behalf of the data owner, the TPA issues an audit message (or challenge) to the remote server to validate the integrity of the data stored in the remote server. Any modification to the data has been occurred, the data owner is notified about those changes and then validates his or her data. The disadvantages of this method are the need for the third party as well as the communication channel with the third party. The last is the provable data possession (PDP) [36] model that generates probabilistic proofs of pos- session by sampling random sets of blocks from the server without retrieving the original data. Data is divided into small blocks and stored in remote server. Using with a homomorphic veri- fiable tag, a data owner generates a random challenge for specific data blocks, then the server responds with the proofs of possession of the blocks. The owner can validate the integrity of his or her data by verifying the validity of the proof without retrieving the original data or accessing to the entire data.
With the emergence of blockchain technology [6–15], publica [37]—a peer-to-peer publish- ing platform based on blockchain technology—was recently introduced; it enables authors to publish their works and allows direct transactions between readers and authors. A reader pur- chases a book token, which is an access key to a particular book, with cryptocurrency, and all purchase contracts are managed by blockchain. All works are stored in decentralized book storage, and readers with valid book tokens can download the books to their devices. However, the system does not allow for buyers to verify the validity of a purchased work or book token during the purchase. As a trusted party, Publica (or a publisher associated with the book) is responsible for the validity of the book content and the book token. However, in self-publish- ing in a trustless environment, readers must validate the content they have purchased and the corresponding access keys during the purchase. In addition, it is necessary to strictly prevent illegal copying and redistribution of downloaded eBook contents.
Elliptic curve cryptography
We first describe the public-key cryptographic schemes, based on elliptic curve cryptography, that provide basic security in our system.
(1) Elliptic curve over Fp
Let Fp be a prime finite field so that p is an odd prime number, and let a, b 2 Fp satisfy the following Eq (1).

An elliptic curve E(Fp) over Fp, which we use for our basic public-key cryptosystem (encryp-
tion and digital signature), consists of the set of points P = (x, y) for x, y 2 Fp to the Eq (2).

together with an extra point O called the point at infinity. For a given point P = (x, y), x is called the x-coordinate of P, and y is called the y-coordinate of P. The number of points on E (Fp) is denoted by #E(Fp), an additive Abelian group. Suppose that P = (x1, y1) and Q = (x2, y2) are points in E(Fp): The following addition rules are defined:


The domain parameters of E(Fp) are denoted as T = (p, a, b, G, n, h) consisting of an integer p specifying the finite field Fp, two elements a, b 2 Fp specifying the above elliptic curve, a base point G = (xG, yG) on E(Fp), a prime n that is the order of G, and an integer h, which is the cofactor h = #E(Fp)/n.
(2) Elliptic curve key pair
−+
For a given elliptic curve, an elliptic curve private-and-public key pair (K , K ) = (d, Q) is
generated as follows:
1. randomlyselectanintegerdintheinterval[1,n-1]
2. calculateQ=dG
3. output(d,Q)
(3) Elliptic curve integrated encryption scheme (ECIES)
For a given domain parameter T, let two users be U and V, and let the private-and-public −+ −+
key pairs of U and V be (Ku , Ku ) and (Kv , Kv ), respectively. Suppose that U sends a message M encrypted with V’s public key. The encryption algorithm is performed as follows:
1. selectarandomsecretintegerkandgeneratedapointR=kG=(xR,yR)
2. compute Q = k Kv+ (= k dV G) = (xQ, yQ) and z = xQ
3. derive a symmetric encryption key and a MAC key kE | kM = KDF(z), where KDF( ) is the key derivation function
4. computeEM=E(kE,M)andD=MAC(kM,EM),whereE( )isasymmetricencryptionalgo- rithm and MAC() is a MAC scheme
5. outputaciphertextC=R|EM|D
The decryption algorithm of V for a ciphertext C is performed as follows:
−+
1. computeQ=Kv  R(=dV k G=k dV G=k Kv )=(xQ,yQ)andz=xQ
2. derive a symmetric encryption key and a MAC key kE | kM = KDF(z)
3. compute MAC(kM , EM), and if MAC(kM , EM) 6à D, output ‘failed’
4. decryptM=D(kE,EM)whereD( )isasymmetricdecryptionalgorithm
(4) Elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA)s
For the given domain parameter T and the private-and-public key pairs of two users U, V same as above, the signing operation of U for a message M, denoted as Sig(K −, M), is per-
u 1. selectarandomsecretintegerkandgeneratedapointR=kG=(xR,yR)
formed as follows:
2. r=xR modn,ifr=0,returntostep1)

3. e=anintegerconversionofH(M),whereH( )isacryptographichashfunction.If dlog2ne<8 (hash length), then e = an integer conversion of the leftmost dlog2ne bits of H (M)
4. s⌘k-1 (e+r K −)(modn) u
5. output(r,s)
The verifying operation V for a signature S = (r, s) is performed as follows:
1. e=anintegerconversionofH(M),ifdlog2ne<8(hashlength),thene=anintegerconver- sion of the leftmost dlog2ne bits of H(M)
2. u1 ⌘ e s-1 (mod n) and u2 ⌘ r s-1 (mod n)
+
4. v ⌘ xR (mod n). If v = r, output ‘valid’, otherwise, output ‘invalid’


Blockchain-based eBook transaction system
System configuration, assumptions and security requirements
The proposed eBook transaction system consists of user, service application, eBook content, digital coin, blockchain, book repository, and P2P network. Users can be either authors or readers, and each user can use all the services of the proposed system only through the service application; the service application, denoted as SA, is dedicated software that conducts all func- tions specified in our system. We give a detailed description of the SA in the next subsection. An eBook is defined as a digital text document that can be sold independently, and it can be a stand-alone book or part of a series; the digital coin in the proposed system is a cryptocurrency used to pay for eBook purchases. Existing cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin [6–7] and Ether- eum [8] can be used, but our implemented service application used our developed cryptocur- rency. All eBook information and eBook purchase transactions are distributed over the network and maintained on blockchains named B_Chain and C_Chain, respectively. A book repository, which acts as a content server, stores all published eBook contents in an encrypted manner. Every eBook is divided into small pieces of book content, and each piece of book is encrypted with its own book key. The repository stores only the encrypted pieces of eBooks but does not store any private or secure information including book keys; the repository also has an authentication logic layer that verifies whether an upload or download request is valid or not.
Fig 1 shows the configuration of the proposed system and an illustrated scenario of eBook registration and purchase. Any user can either publish a new eBook using a SA or purchase and read an eBook using the application. Once an author A completes a new book, A registers the book. The book information is broadcast to all users on the network, and B_Chain is updated. Encrypted pieces of the book are uploaded to the book repository; the current book list of every SA is also then updated. If a reader B wants to buy A’s published book, A and B complete that purchase protocol between them; B can validate the book before completing the purchase with a book key obtained during the purchase process. When A and B complete a valid transaction, the transaction deploys on the network, and C_Chain is updated. B can request the encrypted pieces of the book from the book repository, which then validates the purchase transaction and C_Chain. If all are valid, B downloads the book pieces, re-encrypts them with a new key, and stores them locally.
For practical use of the proposed system, the following assumptions are made:


• The SA is trusted. The provider of the proposed system is responsible for keeping the system available and safe, and for resolving any claims incurred while using the proposed system. But, the provider is not responsible for the published content itself.
• The SA has a master secret key programmed in a secure manner, and it is impossible for users to know the master key.
• Only eBook purchase is allowed. eBook rental, which grants a right to read for a particular period, is disallowed.
• Only authors have the ownership of their created eBook contents; eBook readers have only a “right to read” for their purchased contents. Thus, readers cannot resell their purchased books.
• The proof of working (or mining block) for a blockchain update can be accomplished by any user on the network, but for efficient and practical use of the scheme, the author is basically responsible for the proof of work.
SA is the most crucial element in our system; Fig 2 shows the SA configuration. SA consists of four main modules: communication, security, eBook transaction, and user interface. The communication module is responsible for all kinds of P2P communications between users on the network including the book repository. The security module is responsible for performing fundamental cryptographic protocols including public key encryption and decryption, digital signature and verification, and symmetric key encryption and decryption. SHA256 [38–39] is used for a hash algorithm, and ECDSA is used for a basic digital signature algorithm. ECIES is used for a public key encryption and decryption algorithm, and AES [40–41] with the key size of 256 bits is used for a symmetric key encryption and decryption algorithm. The eBook trans- action module, which plays a key role in the proposed system, performs three main actions:

eBook management, transaction management, and user management. The eBook manage- ment relates to when a new eBook is created, generates its book key, divides the book into the pieces and encrypts them, and so on. The transaction management creates blocks for eBook registration transactions and eBook purchase transactions, updates the corresponding block- chain, and manages users’ digital coin. The user management module registers users and man- agers their book lists. Finally, the user interface module provides all kinds of user interfaces for eBook registration, purchase, reading, and showing current coin.
Next, we describe the format of transactions for eBook registration and eBook purchase, and explain the blockchain update process. The format of both types of transactions are given in Table 1.

A new block containing eBook registration transactions collected during a predefined time interval is periodically created, and the block is added to the current B_Chain. In contrast, in order to enable real-time eBook purchases, a new block containing the purchase transaction is created whenever a new purchase transaction occurs, and the block is added to the current C_Chain. Originally, the hash value of the new block is determined as the root hash value of the Merkle tree composed of the hash values of transactions included in the block. For C_Chain, because a block usually contains a single transaction, the transaction hash value becomes the block’s root hash value.
As assumed above, every author is supposed to generate the proof-of-work about a current block. The proof-of-work for each block is to find a nonce that can generate a hash value start- ing with 0 as many as the number specified in a predefined difficulty field. The format of each block is given in Table 2.
The algorithm for updating blockchain add(chain, transaction) and the algorithm for veri- fying transaction verify(chain, transaction, block_id) are given below:
add(chain, transaction) performs
1. TIDi = a set of hash values of transactions collected for the i-th time interval;
2. computetid=H(transaction);
3. if (verify the signature of transaction) then TIDi = TIDi [ {tid};
4. if(blockcreationtime)then
A. previous_block_hash=block_hashofchain;
B. computeroot_hash=merkle_tree_root_hash(TIDi);
C. findnoncesuchthatH(previous_block_hash|nonce|root_hash)satisfiesthedifficulty; D. generateanewblockandupdatechain=H(previous_block_hash|nonce|root_hash);
verify(chain, transaction, block_id) performs
1. find blockid with block_id in chain;
2. compute tid = H(transaction) and find a transaction Tid with tid in blockid;
3. obtainapublickeypkfromcontractofTid;
4. if(verifythesignatureoftransactionwithpk)
A. generate new_TID = TID–{tidid} [ {tid} where tidid is the hash of Tid;


B. computenew_root_hash=merkle_tree_root_hash(new_TID); C. previous_block_hashid = previous_block_hash of blockid;
D. nonceid = nonce of blockid;
E. compute new_block_hash = H(previous_block_hashid | nonceid | new_root_hash); F. if(new_block_hash=block_hashofblockid)outputtrue;
else output false;
The main goal of the proposed system is to provide a secure and reliable eBook transaction system. Thus, we designed our system to satisfy the following security requirements:
• Ownership: It is possible to identify the owner of each eBook. It is impossible to forge or modify the owner of the eBook without knowing the private key of the owner.
• Authentication: It is possible to authenticate if a user is a legitimate purchaser.
• Authorization: It is possible to authorize if a user has a right to read a particular eBook’s content. Only a legitimate purchaser who has a valid purchase transaction recorded in the blockchain has a right to read the purchased book.
• Confidentiality of digital content: It is impossible to obtain unencrypted and original eBook contents without knowing the book keys of the contents.
• Non-forgeability of digital content: It is impossible for a non-author to forge or modify eBook contents that have been already published.
• Verifiability of digital content: It is possible to verify the author and content validity of an eBook.
• Readability: The eBook contents can be restored only at the service application. It is impos- sible to read the contents in other ways.
• Non-forgeability of purchase transaction: It is infeasible to forge any eBook purchase transaction.
• Non-repudiation of purchase transaction: It is infeasible to repudiate previously performed purchases.
• Verifiability of transaction: Every eBook purchase transaction is verifiable.
• Forbidden of piracy and illegal distribution: Only authors have the ownership of their published eBook contents. A non-author can neither distribute nor resell the purchased book.
We assume the threat model of malicious users as follows: Malicious users can attempt to
1. uploadcontentthatdoesnotmakesense,suchasacompilationofmeaninglesstexts;
2. manipulatecontentsthatarepurchasedandstoredintheirlocaldevicesanddistributeor upload the fabricated or copied contents;
3. downloadcontentsfromthebookrepositorywithoutvalidpurchasetransactions;
4. stopthepurchaseprocessabnormallybeforethepurchaseprocesscompletes.
The main notations used in the proposed eBook transaction protocols are summarized in


The proposed eBook trading protocols
User registration. All eBook services are available by installing the service application.
Every SA has the same master secret key denoted as MK that has been already programmed in
the application in a secure manner. Let SAi be the service application of a user Ui. The installed
SAi initially performs a user registration process, which produces Ui’s ID (IDi), password
(PW ), and public-and-private key pair (K + and K −) and SA’s public-and-private key pair iii
(AK + and AK −); U chooses its own ID, password, and public-and-private key pair. The user’s iii
private information is encrypted with SA’s private key, and SA’s private key is encrypted with MK. Thus, it is impossible for any entity except for the SA itself to know the SA’s private key in any way. All private information is stored in Ui’s local storage as encrypted. Then, user infor- mation, denoted as user_info (user’s ID, user’s public key, and SA’s public key), is generated as follows:
user info à }IDijKiájAKiá} Ö3Ü user_info is broadcast with its signature USIG = Sig(K −, user_info). All SAs over the net-
work add the new user to their user lists. The user registration process is given in Fig 3:
The SA requires a user’s password to authenticate the user, simply checking the validity of
the password given whenever a user utilizes his or her SA.
eBook registration. Any user can upload his or her digital content through the eBook
management module of SA. eBook registration consists of two steps: updating B_Chain with new book information and uploading encrypted eBook content to the book repository. Let the j-th digital content of an author UA be Bj. SAA first chooses a random secret key sj and creates a book key bkj of Bj as follows:

The reason the master secret key of SAA is used to generate the book key is so that only the legitimate SA, which knows the master secret key, can produce the same book key later.
Bj is divided into n pieces of the same size except for the last piece, and these are denoted as Bj = {bj,1| bj,2|. . .| bj,n}; the size of the last piece is less than or equal to that of the other pieces. The number of pieces depend on the book size. SAA generates a hash value of Bj and hash val- ues of individual file piece bj,k, and then produces a hash list for all file pieces, such as Hj = H (Bj) and HLj = {H(bj,1)|H(bj,2)| . . . |H(bj,n)}. In order to protect the intellectual property of an eBook, the original content has to be encrypted; that is, there is no way for any buyer to check if the buying content is valid until the purchased is completed. A buyer can obtain only encrypted content and its corresponding book key after completing a purchase; if the revealed eBook content is meaningless or garbage, the buyer loses the purchase price. In contrast, we believe that a buyer should be able to verify an eBook’s content during the purchase process. Our strategy is to allow a buyer to acquire a random piece of the book during the purchasing process to check its validity, and if that random piece is valid, the buyer continues the purchas- ing process.
SAA encrypts each piece with the book key. The completely encrypted content is CBj = {E
(bkj, bj,1)| E(bkj, bj,2)|. . .| E(bkj, bj,n)}, and this generates UA’s digital signature for CBj, which is
SB = Sig(K −, CB | HL ). SA generates book information as follows: jAjjA
BIDj à HÖbook titlejIDAjKAáÜ; Ö5Ü book info à }BIDjjbook titlejIDAjKAájHjjbook pricejSBjjsummaryjjtimestamp}; Ö6Ü
where BIDj is the ID of Bj, IDA is the author’s ID, and KA+ is the author’s public key. summaryj is the summary of the book for preview. A pair of HLj and CBj is stored in a separate book repository, and only legal book purchasers can obtain those. The author’s signature SBj for CBj and HLj is used in the eBook upload to the book repository. The book repository can use the author’s signature to verify that the author is uploading given content.


The author’s signature for book_info is BSIG = Sig(K −,book_info), and a final book regis- jA
tration transaction denoted as BTRSj is broadcast as follows:
Transaction à }BSIG jbook info} and BTRS à }HÖTransaction ÜjTransaction } Ö7Ü
At least, all SAs that generated BTRSs perform the proof-of-work for a block containing all BTRSs collected for a predefined period, and B_Chain is updated with the first generated block hash value. Since the updated B_Chain is deployed over the entire network including the book repository, every online SA updates their book lists to include all the new book information. Fig 4 summarized the eBook registration protocol.
As B_Chain is updated, SAA uploads the encrypted contents and hash list to the book repos-
itory. Suppose that the book repository possesses all BTRSs recorded on current B_Chain. SAA
generates book-upload request message book_upload = “block_ID | BTRS_ID | BIDj | time-
stamp” and its signature BUSIG = Sig(K −, book_upload). Also, SA encrypts “CB | HL ” with AAjj
the book repository’s public key. Finally, SAA sends the following book-upload request, BURQST, to the book repository:
BURQST à <book upload; BUSIG; PKEÖBKá; CBjjHLjÜ> Ö8Ü
block_ID is the sequence number of the block that contains the BTRS of the uploaded eBook. BTRS_ID indicates the ID field of the BTRS. The book repository reveals CBj | HLj with its private key and finds the corresponding BTRS with BTRS_ID in the block. It obtains BIDj, KA+ and SBj from book_info in the BTRS and verifies BIDj, BUSIG and SBj for the given BIDj, book_upload, and the revealed CBj and HLj. If the signatures are all valid, then, the contents are stored in the repository. Fig 4 presents the eBook registration protocol.
Alternatively, the book repository can only store hash values of all BTRSs for saving the storage costs. In this case, SAA sends the BTRS of the uploaded book along with BURQST. In

addition to perform the same verification process for the BURQST, the book repository needs to validate the BTRS itself. It computes the hash value of BTRS, the Merkle tree root hash for all BTRSs in the block, and the block hash. If the computed block hash is identical to the block hash of B_Chain, then the contents are stored in the repository. Fig 5 shows the eBook upload protocol.
eBook purchase. A user pays a fee to the author directly for the right to read an eBook. Thus, the main goal of the purchase process is to securely provide a buyer with a valid book key through a validated eBook purchase contract between the author and the buyer. Before making the agreement, the buyer should be able to validate both the purchased book’s content and the received book key. Also, the author must receive the buyer’s confirmation that the buyer has obtained a valid book key. To achieve this, the two sides perform the following eBook purchasing process interactively.
Let SAR and SAA be the service application for a book reader and an author, respectively. SAR first generates a contract request message request as follows:
CID à HÖBIDjjIDAjIDRjtimestampÜ; Ö9Ü request à }CIDjBIDjjIDAjIDRjKRájAKRájbook pricejbalanceRjrindexjtimestamp}; Ö10Ü
where CID is a new contract ID, AKR+ is SAR’s public key, balanceR is UR’s current coin bal-
ance, and rindex is a random number in the interval [1, nBP], where nBP is the total number of
pieces of the book. rindex is required to validate the content of a book for purchase. The read-
er’s private key digitally signs the request message as RSIG = Sig(K −, request). The final con- RR
tract request message CRQSTR = <request, RSIGR> is then broadcast.


Second, SAA responds to SAR with a contract message and a book key, and the book reposi- tory responds to SAR with the encrypted book piece and its hash value corresponding to rindex specified in request. SAA generates a contract message and its digital signature. SAA replies with a message that includes an encrypted secret book key, the contract message, and its signa- ture. The contract message, denoted as contract, is defined as follows:
contract à }CIDjBIDjjIDAjKAájIDRjKRájAKRájbook pricejnbalanceAjnbalanceBjtimestamp}Ö11Ü
nbalanceA is the updated balance of UA after adding the book price to UA’s current balance,
and nbalanceR is the updated balance of UR after the book price is deducted from the UR’s cur-
rent balance. The author’s private key digitally signs the contract message as CSIG = Sig(K −,
AA ckj àPKEÖAKRá;sjÜ Ö12Ü
contract). SAA encrypts a partial book key sj with SAR’s public key as follows:
This is to allow for only a legal SAR to produce a valid book key. The final contract reply mes- sage CRPYj = < ckj, contract, CSIGA> is then broadcast.
The book repository chooses the encrypted book piece and hash value corresponding to rin- dex specified in the request message and encrypts it with SAR’s public key as well. Note that SAR’s public key is specified in request. The repository responds to SAR with cbj,rindex as fol- lows:
cbj;rindex à PKEÖAKRá;EÖbkj; bj;rindexÜjHLj;rindexÜ Ö13Ü
Lastly, SAR validates the given book key and the eBook content. If both the key and the con-
tent are valid, then SAR broadcasts a confirm message digitally signed by the reader’s private
key; otherwise, SAR generates a fail message signed by the reader’s key. SAR obtains the partial
book key by decrypting ck with SA ’s private key as s = PKD(AK −, ck ). Then, SA produces jRjRjR
the original book key using its master secret key as bkj = H(sj | MK). Also, SAR decrypts cbj,rindex with its private key and obtains the encrypted book piece E(bkj, bj,rindex) and the corresponding hash value HLj,rindex. SAR decrypts E(bkj, bj,rindex) with its generated book key bkj and produces a hash value of H(bj,rindex). If the produced hash value is identical to the given value, then the book key is proven correct. In addition, it is proven that the contents stored in the book reposi- tory are the original contents that the author created and uploaded (that is, the content was not modified).
SAR shows a fragment of the decrypted book piece bj,rindex to UR. UR checks if the decrypted
content makes sense, that is, if it consists of meaningful text. If both the key and the content
are valid, SA generates a digital signature for contract CSIG = Sig(K −, contract) and gener- RRR
ates and broadcasts a final purchase transaction, CTRS, as follows:
Transaction à }CSIGRjCSIGAjcontract} and CTRS à }HÖTransactionÜjTransaction} Ö14Ü
Otherwise, SA broadcasts a fail message <MSG = “verification failed”, Sig(K −, MSG)> RR
and the purchase is terminated. For a valid transaction, SAA just generates a block containing CTRS and adds it to C_Chain. C_Chain is broadcast to all users including the book repository, and SAR and SAA update their users’ coins. The book repository does not need to store all CTRSs but only keeps the transaction hash values, block nonce and the block hash. Fig 6 sum- marizes the eBook purchase protocol.
eBook download and storage. Once the contract has been completed successfully, SAR can download the encrypted eBook pieces from the book repository. SAR first generates a book request message with its transaction, and if the transaction is valid, then the repository responds with the encrypted book pieces. The book request message is constructed as

book_request = “block_ID | CTRS_ID | BIDj | timestamp” and its signature is generated as BRSIG = Sig(AK −, book_request). A final book request, BRQST, is sent to the book repository:
BRQST à <book request; BRSIG; CTRS> Ö15Ü block_ID is the sequence number of the block containing CTRS, and CTRS_ID indicates the
+++
ID of CTRS. The book repository obtains AKR , KA and KR from contract in CTRS. It firstly
R
verifies the validity of BRSIG with AKR+ and verifies two signatures CSIGR and CSIGA for con- ++
tract with KA and KR . If the signatures are all valid, then it computes the hash value of CTRS
and its block hash. If the computed block hash is identical to the block hash in the C_Chain,
then the transaction is validated. Then, the repository replies with CBj encrypted with AKR+ as
+
PKE(AKR
to obtain the original eBook content without completing the purchase transaction, even though the book key has been obtained. The eBook download protocol is given in Fig 7:
, CBj). Because a valid C_Chain is required to download the eBook, it is impossible
Once the eBook has been downloaded, SAR decrypts the original content of the book and re-encrypts it with SAR’s randomly chosen secret key, and then it stores the book in the read- er’s local storage. Thus, even for the same eBook, each reader receives a differently encrypted version of the book for local storage. Additionally, each encrypted version can be decrypted only by SA. The detailed protocol is given in Fig 8:

Users can read books they have purchased legally through their SA. Whenever an eBook read request occurs, SA reveals the book key n_bk = PKD(AK −, c_bk), reveals the book B = D
Rj (n_bk, Cj), and shows the book through the SA viewing module. Because the purchased con-
tent is encrypted with a new book key and also with the SA’s public key, the user cannot obtain the original and unencrypted content from the local device. Because the encrypted book key can be restored only by the SA’s private key, the other SAs cannot restore the encrypted con- tents without knowing the SA’s private key, even if the user distributed the encrypted content to others.
Additional remarks
We explain further some distinct features of the proposed system by answering the following three questions.
(1) Why is the master secret key of SA required?
Every SA shares the same master key, which is securely programmed but is not stored in anywhere. The master secret key is mainly used to generate the book key for a segment of

eBook content. When a new book is created, SA first chooses a random secret and the book key is generated as a hash value of a concatenated string with both the random secret and the SA’s master secret, such as H(a random secret | SA’s master secret). When a user wants to buy the book, the author sends not the book key but only an encrypted random secret. Then, the purchaser should generate the same book key with the given secret and the master secret of the purchaser’s SA. This is to authenticate if the purchasing object is a valid service application. In other words, this is to prevent a malicious purchaser from obtaining the original contents using a fake SA.
(2) Why is the book repository necessary?
We have assumed every registered eBook’s content is uploaded to the book repository, which acts as a content server; the original purpose of the repository is to increase the effi- ciency of downloading content. Suppose that every author keeps all contents in his or her local storage without the book repository; an author receives every request to buy his or her books, and every buyer should receive the books from the author, and under these circumstances, the overload to the author’s network could be heavy. The book repository acts as a kind of cloud server that can handle many requests and downloading tasks at the same time, and it can be implemented in a decentralized way. The book repository is not a trusted party, that is, it takes no responsibility for the security of stored contents; it has only a control logic, which can vali- date basic cryptographic protocols such as digital signatures and blockchain hash values. The book repository is necessary for practical use of the proposed system.
(3) Why does a purchaser need to receive a random book piece from the book repository?
The proposed purchasing protocol is performed by three parties: a buyer, an author, and the book repository. To validate the book for purchase, the buyer requests a randomly selected book piece, then the book repository responds to the buyer with the corresponding encrypted piece and its hash value: This process is the most crucial part of the proposed system. After the purchase has been completed, the buyer downloads the entire eBook contents from the book repository. In other words, from the buyer’s point of view, it is necessary to verify not only the content for purchase but also the integrity of the contents stored in the book repository; that is, the buyer should be able to verify if the stored contents are the original contents that the author uploaded. Our protocol resolves all of these challenges. First, if the random book piece the book repository gives is restored correctly, that is, if the hash value of the restored content is the same as the given hash value, the buyer can validate the correctness of the given book key as well as the integrity of the content stored in the repository because only the author can cre- ate the hash value of each eBook piece; if the restored content is meaningful, then the content is validated. What if not the book repository but the author provided the buyer the random piece during the purchase process? The buyer can validate the given book key for the encrypted book piece given from the author, but, the buyer cannot be sure that the other con- tents stored in the repository are all valid. What if the buyer receives the encrypted book piece from the author and receives the hash value from the book repository? This is the same as the previous situation: The buyer still cannot be sure of the association of the encrypted content stored in the book repository with the hash. Therefore, obtaining a random piece of eBook content from the repository is necessary.
(4) What if a user uploads plagiarized content?
Firstly, a user cannot obtain the original text file of the purchased eBook content without knowing the master secret key of the service application. That is, making a copy of the original text file of the purchased eBook content is impossible. A user, however, can read the purchased book, create new plagiarized eBook content, and publish it as new eBook content. If the plagia- rized eBook is exactly same as the existing eBook content, since the hash value of the existing


creation is the same as that of the plagiarized creation, it is possible to determine whether pla- giarism is performed by comparing the hash values. Plagiarism detection in this way, however, is very inefficient and impractical. Even with a slight change in the text, the hash value is differ- ent, so it is not possible to detect plagiarism unless it is a file copy. The proposed system does not automatically detect plagiarized content and does not prevent users from uploading plagia- rized content. Further research is needed to solve the plagiarism detection. Typically, user review and reputation systems can be applied to the proposed system.
Evaluation and analysis
Security analysis
In this section, we analyze how the proposed eBook transaction system satisfies the suggested security requirements.
(1) Ownership, Authentication, and Authorization. First, when a new eBook is created, book information is created including book title and id, author’s id and public key, produced, and digitally signed by the author; then the information is broadcast to all users on the network and recorded on the blockchain named as B_Chain. Thus, any user can authenticate the owner of each eBook publicly.
Second, any buyer who performed the purchase process correctly obtains a valid purchase transaction and its blockchain containing the transaction block hash. Because the transaction includes signatures generated by both the buyer and the author, a legitimate purchaser can be authenticated by validating the transaction and the blockchain.
Lastly, the only user who possesses both a valid book key for the purchased eBook and a valid contract chain containing the purchase transaction of the book can read the eBook; the book key is required to decrypt the purchased eBook, and the contract chain is necessary to obtain the remainder of the encrypted eBook contents from the book repository. The purchase process consists of two steps: (1) obtaining a book key for an eBook and (2) performing the agreement to the eBook purchase between the buyer and the author. A malicious buyer may perform only the first step and stop the rest of the contract process; then, the contract will not be completed so that a valid contract chain containing the transaction will not be produced. Even though the buyer has received a valid book key, it is not possible to download all the rest of encrypted eBook contents from the book repository without a valid transaction and its blockchain. Therefore, only the legitimate purchaser who has completed the purchase process normally has a right to read the purchased book.
(2) Confidentiality of digital content. Basically, every eBook has been encrypted with its book key and stored in the book repository. Every eBook is communicated over the network as encrypted with a receiver’s public key. The book key is randomly generated for each eBook based on the master key of the service application. In addition, the book key is delivered to a buyer as encrypted with the public key of the buyer’s SA; thus, only a valid SA that knows the SA master key can reveal the book key. On top of it, the purchased eBook is re-encrypted for a new key chosen by the buyer’s SA and saved in the buyer’s local storage; thus, the purchased eBook can be opened only by the buyer’s SA. Also, the new book key is also encrypted with the SA’s public key. That is, all information related to the eBook is stored as encrypted so that it is impossible for even a legal buyer to obtain the original unencrypted content without knowing the SA master key.
(3) Non-forgeability of digital content. As mentioned above, because every eBook is released as encrypted with its own book key, accessing and forging the original content is impossible without knowing the corresponding key. Forging the contents stored in the book repository is also infeasible because eBook uploading requires the corresponding book


information digitally signed by the book. Thus, it is impossible to forge already released eBook contents without knowing the private key of the author.
(4) Verifiability of digital content. Each eBook is released with the hash value of the orig- inal content, and the author digitally signs the book information; with the signature, the buyer can verify the author of the book. During the purchase protocol, the buyer’s SA generates the purchased book’s book key and decrypts a randomly selected book piece, allowing the buyer to directly verify if restored content is meaningful. When a buyer has downloaded all encrypted book pieces from the book repository, the buyer can verify the integrity of the downloaded contents by comparing the hash value of the revealed content with the published hash value of the original content.
(5) Readability. The purchased eBook is only readable by the buyer’s SA because only that SA can decrypt the corresponding book key with its private key and present the original content. The purchased contents are stored in the buyer’s local storage, so users can read the books any time.
(6) Non-forgeability of transaction. The eBook purchase is an interactive process between a buyer and an author, and the process requires consensus. If and only if both sides generate valid digital signatures about the eBook purchase contract is the contract added to the contract chain. According to the basic nature of the blockchain technology, a valid contract chain can be produced if and only if a valid proof of work about a block containing the con- tract is generated. Thus, forging a transaction requires forging digital signatures of both sides without knowing the private keys of either side and forging the blockchain as well, whereas this is impossible due to the security of the cryptographic digital signature and of the Block- chain. Therefore, our eBook transaction is non-forgeable.
(7) Verifiability of transaction. As mentioned above, the eBook contract contains the digital signatures of both a buyer and an author, and the contract is permanently stored in the contract chain. Thus, the contract can be always verified with the public keys of both sides and current contract chain due to the nature of the blockchain.
(8) Forbidden of illegal distribution. Ultimately, users cannot obtain the original con- tents of eBooks that they did not create from their local storages because users cannot obtain valid book keys of the purchased eBooks. Therefore, it is impossible to redistribute the original contents of purchased eBooks. In other cases, the encrypted contents stored in the user’s local storage may be redistributed, but the book key cannot be restored because the key is encrypted with the private key of the user’s SA. The encrypted content can be decrypted only by the SA of the original purchaser, and the redistribution is meaningless because other SAs cannot decrypt the content normally.
Simulated performance analysis
In this section, we examine the simulated performance of the proposed eBook transaction sys- tem. Our model should be serviced in real-time, so we analyze the average execution time for the following seven main actions: eBook generation, eBook registration transaction (BTRS) broadcasting, eBook upload to the book repository, eBook purchase transaction (CTRS) gener- ation, blockchain update, eBook download from the book repository, eBook resave. Five experimenters randomly repeated the eBook registering and purchasing process. The experi- menters performed the registration and purchase process at least 10 times for each eBook size. Our experimental results show the average value of all execution times performed by the experimenters for each main action. In particular, the eBook upload and the eBook download require additionally transaction verification with blockchain. In other words, BTRS verifica- tion using B_Chain and CTRS verification using C_Chain are required before the eBook


upload and the eBook download, respectively. Thus, each transaction verification time will be analyzed separately. We describe first the experimental environment including user informa- tion and eBook information, and analyze our experimental results in detail. The detailed experimental environment for the simulation is described in Table 4.
Our system begins with the installation of the proposed SA, which registers a new user, cre- ates new user information, and broadcasts it to existing users. The SA obtains a current user list from a predefined genesis server; the user information contains user’s id (uid), user’s public key (upk), user’s network ip and port (ip and port), and the public key of the user’s SA (spk). The user information is produced as a JSON format as shown in Table 5 and is broadcast to all existing users. Then, users update their current user lists.
Whenever a user creates new eBook content, the book registration transaction containing the book information is broadcast to all users on the network, and encrypted eBook pieces are uploaded to the book repository. The book information shown in Table 6 contains book id (bid), book title (title), author’s id (uid), author’s public key (upk), book price in coins (price), signature for encrypted book pieces and hash list (signatureStr), book summary (summary), book size in bytes (size), the total number of book pieces (numOfPices), and timestamp. Each encrypted book piece is filed in bytes, and its file name consists of its bid and its piece number.
An eBook is divided into small book pieces, and the number of book pieces is determined according to the book size as shown in Table 7.
The main processes of our system are (1) eBook registration, (2) eBook purchase, and (3) eBook download and storage. Registering an eBook consists of generating a new eBook, updat- ing B_Chain with a new book registration transaction, and uploading the eBook to the book


repository. The eBook purchase is divided into two steps: a new eBook purchase transaction and C_Chain update to include the new transaction. The first step entails validating the eBook and the mutual transaction between a buyer and an author; it involves the buyer reading and

confirming the revealed content. If the first step is performed correctly, the second step takes place: C_Chain is updated with the addition of a new block that contains the transaction. In our simulation, the buyer finally completes and sends the eBook purchase transaction to the author, and then the author creates and replies with a new block by mining the proof-of-work of the block for practicality and efficiency. As soon as the eBook purchase is complete, the eBook download is performed automatically. More specifically, the execution time of each detailed step is determined as follows:
• eBook generation time = load contents from text file + generate bid + generate book key + generate encrypted book pieces + generate book registration transaction (BTRS)
• BTRS broadcasting time = send book information JSON file to a single user
• B_Chain and C_Chain update time = create block + mine block
• eBook upload time = generated book upload request + send request and list of encrypted book pieces + verify request with B_Chain + save book pieces in files
• eBook purchase transaction (CTRS) generation time = generate book purchase request
+ generate and verify signature + send request + encrypt book key + generate contract mes- sage + generate and verify signature + decrypt book secret and generate book key + decrypt random book piece + confirm the decrypted book piece + generate CTRS


• eBook download time = generate book download request + send book request + verify request with C_Chain + download whole pieces of eBook
• eBook resave time = decrypt eBook + generate new book key + encrypt the book with new book key + save the encrypted book and book key in local storage
We now analyze the average execution time of each detailed step. Fig 9 first shows the aver- age time to generate an eBook: It took 9.1ms and 9.7ms to generate 50 and 100 kb eBooks, 23.5ms for eBooks of 500 kb, 37.1ms for 1 mb, 112.1ms for 3 mb, 183.6ms for 5 mb, and 425.6ms for 10 mb. Since the most time-consuming task in the eBook generation is to create encrypted book pieces, the eBook generation time increases proportionally to the number of book pieces and the size of each book piece. The average BTRS broadcasting time to a single user is about 3.5ms as shown in Fig 10. Because BTRS contains only the book information regardless of eBook size, the broadcasting time is very dependent on the network environment. We conducted our simulation on the same local network, so the broadcasting time was very short. B_Chain for broadcasted BTRSs is updated periodically. The B_Chain update time will be analyzed along with C_Chain update time later.
Fig 11 shows the average time to upload the eBook to the book repository. The encrypted eBook file pieces and the hash list of the file pieces are delivered to the book repository as encrypted with the book repository’s public key. The length of hash list increases in propor- tional to the number of file pieces. The eBook upload includes verifying the upload request

message along with uploading the encrypted file pieces. The upload request verification con- sists of decrypting the delivered message and validating the upload request message with B_Chain. If the verification is valid, each encrypted file piece is saved as a separate file in the book repository. Fig 12 shows the average eBook upload request verification time for two types: Type 1 (without BTRS) assumes for the book repository to store all BTRSs recorded in B_Chain but Type 2 (with BTRS) assumes to keep only the hash of every BTRS. Thus, for type 2, BTRS of the uploaded eBook should be delivered to the book repository and additional veri- fication for the given BTRS itself is necessary. For Type 1, it took around 3.7ms for 50 kb, 4.3ms for 100 kb, 4.5ms for 500 kb, 4.7ms for 1mb, 4.9ms for 3mb, 6.6ms for 5mb and 8ms for 10 mb. For Type 2, it took around 5.6ms for 50 kb, 6.8ms for 100 kb, 6.6ms for 500 kb and 1mb, 6.9ms for 3 mb, 8.1ms for 5 mb and 9.7ms for 10 mb. The computational overhead for Type 2 verification is around 3ms. For the eBook upload, it took about 81.25ms and 83ms to upload 50 and 100 kb, 196.8ms for 500 kb, 353.25ms for 1 mb, 508.2ms for 3 mb, 804.5ms for 5 mb, and 1558.75ms for 10 mb. The eBook request verification time and eBook upload time for 5 mb and 10 mb files increased more significantly than others because the number of file pieces and eBook size nearly doubled than 3 mb and 5 mb eBooks, respectively. In addition, the longer hash list was added to those files. Our experimental results show that the eBook upload time is mainly affected by the number of file pieces and the size of each file piece. We will continue further research to find the optimal number of file pieces that ensure both the eBook safety and communication efficiency.

As mentioned above, eBook purchase consists of generating an eBook transaction and updating a corresponding blockchain. The most time-consuming task in generating the trans- action is the buyer’s content verification, during which the buyer reads partially revealed con- tents, verify if the content makes sense, and then confirms purchase by clicking “yes” in the confirmation dialog window. Fig 13 shows the confirmation performed by SA. The revealed content is presented at the bottom text filed of SA. Thus, the transaction generation time depends heavily on the buyer’s response behavior. In our experiments, the experimental par- ticipants usually responded in about 2 seconds as shown in Fig 14. Once the buyer and the author have made an agreement on their transaction, a valid transaction is completed, and then, the blockchain is updated. A new block is generated that contains the new transaction,


and that block is then added to the existing blockchain. In the blockchain update, the mining block, which finds a random nonce satisfying a predefined difficulty, is the most time-consum- ing. We analyzed the blockchain update time according to levels of difficulty 3, 4, and 5. The block mining time was very jagged, but the average execution time was different depending on the level of difficulty as shown in Fig 15. For B_Chain update, it took about 37ms for level 3 of difficulty, 485ms for level 4, and 2862ms for level 5. Similarly, for C_Chain, it took about 47ms for level 3, 342ms for level 4, and 3340ms for level 5.
Fig 16 and Fig 17 show the average eBook download request message verification time and eBook download and resave time according to various eBook sizes. The eBook download also requires the verification of the eBook download request. We assumed that the book repository only keeps the hash values of all CTRSs recorded in C_Chain. Thus, the eBook download request message contains the corresponding CTRS. As shown in Fig 16, the CTRS validation took about 4.5ms regardless of eBook size. On the other hand, eBook download time is mainly affected by the number of eBook pieces and the size of each file piece, so it increases signifi- cantly with the number of eBook pieces. It took about 57ms and 64ms for 50 kb and 100 kb eBooks, respectively, but it took 110ms for 500 kb, 250ms for 1 mb, 374ms for 3 mb, 797ms for 5 mb, and 1473ms for 10 mb. The downloads took less time than the uploads because the download only requires communication and not include the file storage step. The downloaded encrypted book pieces are re-encrypted with a randomly chosen new book key and saved in the user’s local storage as encrypted. More precisely, each book piece must be decrypted and


then combined into whole content, a new book key should be generated, the whole content must be encrypted again with the new book key, and finally, both the re-encrypted book con- tent and its book key are saved in files. Thus, this task increases in proportion to the number of file pieces and the size of each file piece, and in fact, it took about 20ms for a 50 kb eBook, 27ms for 100 kb, 114ms for 500 kb, 352ms for 1 mb, 1145ms for 3 mb, 2990ms for 5 mb, and 11386ms for 10 mb. Our simulated results show that every action related to direct eBook trans- action can be accomplished in a reasonable time.
Finally, we compare the features of the proposed model with Publica [37], which is the most similar blockchain-based peer-to-peer eBook publishing product. Table 8 summarizes the features of both models.
The proposed model is meaningful in that it protects the copyright of paid contents as well as the safety of direct payment based on blockchain technology in trustless environment, and provides the function that buyers can directly verify the validity of paid contents and the corre- sponding book keys during purchasing.


We have here introduced a blockchain-based eBook transaction system that enables direct eBook purchase between authors and readers without trusted parties. In the proposed system, any user can be either an author or an eBook content buyer. Because of the direct transaction,

no intermediate costs occur, but the security of eBook contents and eBook purchase transac- tions cannot be protected. Thus, we proposed a secure and reliable eBook direct transaction system that overcomes all security vulnerabilities in the absence of trust parties.
The proposed system guarantees the confidentiality of eBook contents; only a legitimate purchaser can read a purchased book. Because the buyer can verify the validity of the eBook content before the purchasing process is completed, authors are also prevented from publish- ing garbage content. Forging and repudiating previously performed transactions are prevented by the blockchain technology, making eBook purchase transactions securely protected. Because every purchased eBook’s content is newly encrypted and stored by the buyer’s service application, resale or redistribution of the purchased content is systemically prevented. As such, the proposed system secures not only the contents of eBooks but also the rights of buyers and authors.
We examined the security of the proposed protocols and the average execution time for main actions including eBook registration, purchase, downloading, and storage, according to various sizes of eBook contents and different levels of difficulty in blockchain generation. Our implemented results show that all the main operations could be accomplished in a reasonable time.
Currently, only eBook purchases are allowed, but continuous research will be conducted to expand the system to allow eBook rental for a limited time. In addition, studies for evaluating the reputation of eBooks and authors will continue as well.

Impact of Technological Blockchain Paradigm on the Movement of Intellectual Property in the Digital Space

The article is dedicated to investigate the problem of influence of cutting edge digital technology on the virtual and real legal relations, related to the movement and the turnover of intellectual property.
Using the method of analyzing modern definitions of blockchain, and relying on the political- economic theory of social redistribution of wealth, authors define the term blockchain and its principles as a technological paradigm.
Authors conclude the fact that blockchain can be used to guarantee intellectual property rights and it should be accepted at the national level.
As a mechanism of a trusted environment, blockchain allows to reduce transaction costs and increase the level of commercialization of intellectual property.

The 21st century has become the epoch of technological revolutions, which have led to the paradigm transformation in the ways rights and legal provisions of socio- economic phenomena are approached, which is explained by the wide-spread use of information technology. Blockchain and other digital technology set the new paradigm of human existence, disrupting the traditional hierarchical systems and forming new physical dimensions (Japparova and Rupeika-Apoga, 2017).
The emergence of civil digital transfer and blockchain transactions with results of intellectual activity, require the necessary information collection and analysis regarding the character of changing rights and obligations of parties, impacting their interest regarding the deal, which in turn increases the value of intellectual products and stimulates the formation of values (Saksonova and Kuzmina-Merlino, 2017).
The topic is very relevant, especially given all the mention given to the digital economy in legislation, presentations by leaders of the IT industry, are in one way or another connected to the universe on non-material assets and thei􏰭 􏱆􏰢􏰛ckeni􏰠a􏰢i􏰛n􏱇 with the use of blockchain. Experts in different fields, competent enough to discuss and hypothesize regarding the topic of blockchain, have diverging points of view. Some believe that blockchain is a new method of trust. Others associate blockchain with bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. Lawyers are more pragmatic in defining blockchain. They define blockchain as an electronic book of in-out transactions, storage of information about rights, automated business process. Obviously, the views about new technology and its potential are so basic and reflects reality, similar to the flight equipment that Icarus used when compared to the high-speed aircrafts. Therefore let us define blockchain at first, as the expression used by Walter (1988) regarding the need to agree on the definitions given the conditions of paradigm and mental changes that we talk about is highly relevant.

Organizational and technological composition of blockchain can be associated with a data base or some sort of register. However, such comparison is only applicable if we compare the shape. In a sense, the system of blocks is significantly different from any traditional data base.
First of all, the subjects forming the system are equal and interact on the principals of social consensus, trust and self-interest. Secondly, blockchain registers may not only be used for storage, but also to determine and transfer synchronized, automated, coded information about any property. It is also widely used and consumed. Thirdly, the presence of technological capabilities to transfer and exchange electronic code between the right holder and consumer creates the price for the object, defined by the agreement between parties, demand, expressed by the number of users of the code. And finally, active data based of non-material assets require the presence of

one party, responsible for the actualization and the preservation of data. Therefore, any operations by right holders regarding the objects in the register need to be delivered to the administrating subject (for example, the use of agreements for EVM, invention, industrial sample, trademark, selective achievement). Such organization implies the trust from the right holders to the subject, that is administrating the register or other data bases.
The content of blockchain is related to the problem of social benefits redistribution with or without government involvement, which has been carefully investigated since Aristotle. He related the meaning of fairness and equality with the approach of redistributing priviliges and material benefits in society (Vovchenko et al., 2017).
The epoch of industrial revolution and development of money exchange relations, has given the opportunity to formulate the main principles of redistribution, and the problem of social redistribution of national wealth has become the subject of special research amongst the representatives of political economy (A. Smith, D. Ricardo, K. Marx and others). Thus, according to A. Smith (1935), the development of wealth of nations is directly related to the means of exchange and income distribution within the society. Radical changes in the view on redistribution is related to the social nature of redistribution. In the framework of this approach the problems of public income distribution between social groups has been investigated, discovering the main tendencies to change the distribution shares (Albekov et al., 2017).
Finally, in the 19th century, the representatives of the theory of social redistribution have proven, that redistribution is not regulated by economic laws, but by legal norms and customs, depending on the political organization in the society. Thus, E. During (1893) devotes a special role to the social-legal factor as a necessary requirement for economic redistribution in various historical periods.
Smi􏰢h􏰀􏰠 (1935) idea 􏰢ha􏰢 n􏰛􏰭mal f􏰟nc􏰢i􏰛ning 􏰛f 􏰢he 􏰬􏰟blic 􏰠􏰪􏰠􏰢em d􏰛e􏰠n􏰀􏰢 need 􏰢he centralized government regulation, was accepted and developed by the economists in the 20th century. For example, H. Demsetz (1973) investigated such means of coordinating the economic system, as technology, consumer preferences and price manipulation. In turn, R. Couse (2007) has proven the impossibility of successful centralized economic management. He has explained the theory of transaction costs as the barrier for exchange development and agreement between individuals regarding the use of imperfect information. Blockchain technology is in fact the method to reduce transaction costs. It simplifies contract composition and distributes resources via price mechanism.
The working of R. Couse (2007) firstly presented in the 30s, may serve as an instruction to ensure profitability and stability of blockchain startups. We suppose, that he has explained the reasons for a short lifespan amongst these firms. In fact, he mentioned, that the inventions and other innovations, that simplify and improve the management techniques lead to firm growth. Larger firm size in turn produces more

transactions, which is the reason for decreasing effectiveness of the company, due to the misbalance of organizational costs within the firm and marketing costs, which disrupt the balance between initiatives and management.
Therefore, blockchain is a new technological paradigm, that establishes the physical environemtn for scientific and applied sphere of human activity, related to extraction of cumulative value, transformation into the digital form and transfer via the automated exchange without third parties.

3. Applications of blockchain in the sphere of intellectual property
The use of blockchain technology has been simplified for the user to the maximum level. Digital image of intellectual property is registered by the rights holder in the journal. Attestation services of the platform ensure the legitimacy of the statement about ownership of non-material assets. These attestation service use hashing or time intervals.
Hashing in a sense is a method of coding the exact content of the initial file, via a mathematical algorithm of data synchronization. The result of the process is a hash, a line of 64 symbols, that serve as a unique identification of the file. The small size of hash makes it possible to integrate it as text into any blockchain transaction, thereby creating a mark, that is protected from any changes over time. Thus, blockchain becomes a register of approved digital objects.
Non-material assets are registered in register-journals and are managed by those, possessing secret key. The sale of the asset is performed via the use of smart- contracts (works as a trading platform), eliminating human factor and performed automatically, which is accompanied by the transfer of the secret key to the purchasing customer. The principles of blockchain functioning are established by the decentralized system of digital image distribution of material and non-material assets, as well as forms of the distributed register, based on the third generation of IT technology. These include:
- All the participants have information access, however no one has control over the information;
- The 􏰠􏰪􏰠􏰢em d􏰛e􏰠n􏰀􏰢 ha􏰁e a hie􏰭a􏰭ch􏰪, am􏰛ng􏰠􏰢 􏰢he man􏰪 bl􏰛ckchain n􏰛de􏰠, there is no dominant node;
- System of transactions is transparent and pure, each operation is available to everyone, who has access to the system;
- Trust for the system is defined by the number of users.
Record of all transactions is unchanged and with the help of hash (electronic code) it is possible to compare and verify the real object and image of the initial information, which was the basis for the code.

Full range of capabilities of application of blockchain in the intellectual property 􏰠􏰬he􏰭e cann􏰛􏰢 be f􏰛􏰭eca􏰠􏰢ed 􏰢􏰛da􏰪, 􏰢ha􏰢􏰀􏰠 􏰱h􏰪 􏰱e decide 􏰢􏰛 f􏰛c􏰟􏰠 􏰛n 􏰢he c􏰟􏰭􏰭en􏰢 projects. The problem of forming the registers of intellectual property results, used in the digital ecosystem has a number of interrelated aspects. Above all, digitalization of intellectual property has resulted in mass breaching of rights of non- material asset owners. Partly, the situation is explained by the absence of available legal ways of intellectual resources transfer in the Internet network, that are both beneficial for the owner and the user.
In the sphere of copyright object use, the use of blockchain is actualized via the emergence of author rights in the majority of participants of the Bern Convention without any registration. Platfroms that are currently active, based on blockchain can be grouped based on the type of the service provided. A range of platforms like 􏱆P􏰭􏰛􏰛f 􏰛f E􏰲i􏰠􏰢ence􏱇 (2017) allows the creators of art, EVM programs and other objects, that are easily transformed into digital form to easily prove author right and the dates of documentation. Cryptographical operation of hash creation is performed on the client side, which is in turn included into the transaction, that in turn is included into the block.
The use of platforms of Blockai type allows the right holders to control the transfer of results of intellectual property in the Internet and agree on terms with third parties. After the registration, the creator is issued with a digital certificate of legitimacy, that allows third parties to identify the author of the object or any other right holder.
The breakthrough in the sphere of digital Internet property protection and commercialization are the projects that are similar to Monegraf, Ascribe (2017) that perform the registration of intellectual property rights and contain instruments of automatic protection of published multimedia objects, such as internet websites, computer games, virtual museums and libraries and etc. Wide spreading of various cryptocurrencies creates the economic system of registration, storage, approval and transfer of exclusive rights.
The most important principles of blockchain functioning are 􏱆if you don􏰀t pay 􏱏 you will not get it􏱇 and high 􏱆hacking resistance􏱇 attract attention of the market participants. Based on the blockchain, almost all of the streaming services have been 􏰢e􏰠􏰢ed in 􏰛􏰭de􏰭 􏰢􏰛 elimina􏰢e 􏰬i􏰭ac􏰪. Thi􏰠 􏰬􏰭􏰛blem ha􏰠n􏰀􏰢 been 􏰠􏰛l􏰁ed, de􏰠􏰬i􏰢e implementation of hard-line laws and severe punishments in all the courts around the world. Now the legal methods have given space to high technology.
Blockchain can serve as a guarantor for the intellectual rights. An example of this is the project by Ujo in cooperation with the singer Imogen Heap, which has made possible to overcome the inefficient music industry with the use of blockchain. The 􏰠inge􏰭 ha􏰠 􏰭elea􏰠ed a 􏰠􏰛ng 􏱆Tin􏰪 H􏰟man􏱇 􏰛n 􏰢he bl􏰛ckchain 􏰬la􏰢f􏰛􏰭m and 􏰟􏰠e􏰭􏰠 􏰱e􏰭e able to buy the licenses for download, transfer, remix and synchronization via smart-contracts. Each payment has been automatically broken down into the block-chain and was sent to Imogen Heap. This example demonstrates, that authors can use blockchain for better control and use of their artwork, improvement of collaboration and fair rewards. New systems of distribution of audio-visual content can also interest authors due to different reasons. It allows them to stop paying for the services of recording studios, distributors and other rights protecting organizations. The need for all these services will disappear.
The sphere of patent rights contains different solutions for protection of risks and the opportunity to prove the uniqueness if the invention, software or artwork at any time. The m􏰛􏰠􏰢 􏱆􏰠afe􏱇 􏰱a􏰪 􏱏 is to provide a copy, certified by the notary. This is a complicated procedure, especially for the companies, that create something every day, or lines of code that require protection. A modern solution has been offered by the Bernstein company, which is the notary services based on blockchain, in order to establich the right for the innovation. The document uploaded to the platform remains confidential, however it can later be proven, that it existed on the date of its upload and ha􏰠n􏰀􏰢 been changed. I􏰢 i􏰠 al􏰠􏰛 􏰬􏰛􏰠􏰠ible 􏰢􏰛 claim 􏰢he 􏰬􏰟blica􏰢i􏰛n 􏰛f 􏰢hi􏰠 document if required, and use it for protection, in order to prevent third party patenting it after the publication. Platform is available since April 2017.
In order to stop patent trolling, the Ministry of Digital Commerce in Great Britain has created a Blockchain Intellectual Property Council (BIPC) in 2017. The aim of BIPC is the development of global patent protective strategy, that will block patent trolling in its embryonic stage. The members of BIPC are the companies, active blockchain users Chain, Digital Asset, IMB, Microsoft, CoinDesk, Blockstream, Bloq, Civic, Cognizant, Deloitte, Digital Currency Group, Ernst&Young, Gem, Medici Ventures, T0.com, TMX and Wipfli. Despite the creation of patent information storage, related to block chain, BIPC will study various models for its protection.
The number of patent filings and trademarks, related to blockchain is rapidly increasing. At the moment the data base of Europatent contains 65 filings, that c􏰛n􏰢ain 􏰢he 􏰱􏰛􏰭d 􏱆bl􏰛ckchain􏱇 and 69, 􏰱hich men􏰢i􏰛n 􏱆bi􏰢c􏰛in􏱇. C􏰛􏰟􏰬le 􏰛f 􏰪ea􏰭􏰠 ahead and these disruptive patents can become extremely valuable. Millions of lines of code can also represent a highly valuable IP-address.
Proteciton of intellectual property and material assets 􏱏 is one of the most rapidly developing directions (Blockchain authentification for detecting fake products). At the moment there is a number of applications, that have been developed to track and identify such products, as diamonds or fashionable products and preventing their duplication, such as Blockverify, Everledger and VeChain. The latter represents the solution for chain management, which can be used to track any element of deal with intellectual IP-network. Smart blocking contracts will improve the reliability of digital systems in the interest of Intellectual Property rights holders and interested parties.
Agrello based in Estonia, has currently made a lot of noise. The company accepts the requests for processing legally binding intellectual contracts, which are produced with the help of digital technology and are reflected in the public block chain.
Therefore, technologies, that implement block chains, solve many problems related to transaction, for example confidentiality, security, completeness, reduction of transaction costs, automatic registration of smart contracts, payments, collaboration and etc. The most important problem with the activity of modern blockchain platforms is the inability to check the rights of ownership for the digital object from the client. However, this problems will be resolved after the introduction of digital face identification, performing the hashing of the document.

4. Potential of Blockchain in Transforming the Intellectual Property Transfer in Russia
We consider important to focus on the factor, impacting the development of use of blockchain technology related to the government and other regulating entities regarding exchange transactions in the sphere of digital economy. The attitude of government towards legalization of legal rights and obligations resulting from blockchain transactions (not centralized regulation) will determine the quality of development of innovation projects and investment climate in the digital sphere.
After negative and passive-spectating attitude from the government towards the digital commercialization of intellectual property in the last couple of years, last year has been notable for the emergence of a number of international and government organizations regarding digitalization of the system of government control, with wide-spread use of technology for decentralized register and information storage about material and non-material assets (Estonia, Switzerland).
Standardization of blockchain technology on the international level is implemented by the international technical committee targetting blockchain standardization (Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies), which includes 35 countries. The turn of Russian government towards digitalization has started in 2015, when the President of the Russian Federation has announced the revolutionary significance of new technology. In fact, V.V. Putin has rejected the view that the presence of rich material resources gives Russia the opportunity not to engage in technically demanding and complex digital technologies. President has pointed, that stone age has finished, but not because there were no more stones left. He believes that the use of blockchain will allow the country to make a breakthrough into the future. It is hard to disagree, which is why in the modern world, things lose value very quickly. Information becomes more valuable than money. Obviously, it is about the information that contains value, and satisfies the standards of digital proper􏰢􏰪. Tha􏰢􏰀􏰠 why the modern society is becoming the society of authors 􏱏 creators of technology and other non-material assets.

In 2017 a number of state blockchain projects have emerged in Russia, that are related to property register, state and city portals and services. In order to coordinate these projects, at the end of September, the State Duma has established the Expert Council in blockchain technology and digital economy. For development and integration of state projects, the Center for practical implementation of blockchain 􏰢echn􏰛l􏰛g􏰪 􏱆The O􏰭bi􏰢􏱇. O􏰁e􏰭all, according to TAdviser (2017a), last year 38 (out of 50) legal parties have been created. These relate their activity to blockchain technologies, software development for EVM, legal activity, scientific development in the sphere of biotechnology, renting out intellectual property and etc.
With support from the Ministry of Education in the October 2017, an initiative has been created in order to create and integrate blockchain platforms for knowledge transfer and author rights management. It is expected, that the platform will become the environment for production and transfer of exclusive rights. According to the Ministry of Education, the platform will contribute towards quicker establishment of author rights on scientific-technological objects, as well as the creation of a fair model of exclusive rights transfer, and will simplify and make cheaper (due to elimination of third parties and brokers) the access to copyright.
We suppose, that a serious threat for the state-initiated startups in the sphere of commercialization of intellectual property is the centralized approach towards implementation of blockchain projects and prioritized development of closed distribution systems; the absence of legislative basis for the deals closure in the digital space and acceptance of civil transfer; legal fragility of the sphere of utilization and data analysis, order of data access and responsibility for non- sanctioned use; inability to legitimately describe the results of intellectual activity in the form of digital models.
5. Discussion and results
Therefore, modern digital transformation of socio-economic state of human lifestyle has once again made the problem of scarce and valuable resource distribution, relevant. Modern order of agreement setting results in significant costs for parties, as it requires preliminary communication, agreement preparation, presence of mediators and others. As a result, the majority of the deals become so expensive that there is no point of agreement. Redistributions of non-material assets, using blockchain technology is based on the market principles, minimizing transaction costs, resulting in increasing value of intellectual property results. However, initial separation of legal rights of subjects, affects the effectiveness of the system of non- material assets redistribution on the basis of blockchain. The absence of legislative acceptance of rights of blockchain transaction participants will result in inability to implement optimal rights distribution.
We regard intellectual contracts as a natural way of digital economic transition. The forms of agreements are never accepted by forever, and smart-contracts allow to use.

Towards a Philosophy of Financial Technologies

Abstract This special issue introduces the study of financial technologies and finance to the field of philosophy of technology, bringing together two different fields that have not traditionally been in dialogue. The included articles are: Digital Art as ‘Monetised Graphics’: Enforcing Intellectual Property on the Blockchain, by Martin Zeilinger; Fundamentals of Algorithmic Markets: Liquidity, Contingency, and the Incomputability of Exchange, by Laura Lotti; ‘Crises of Modernity’ Discourses and the Rise of Financial Technologies in a Contested Mechanized World, by Marinus Ossewaarde; Two Techni- cal Images: Blockchain and High-Frequency Trading, by Diego Viana; and The Blockchain as a Narrative Technology: Investigating the Social Ontology and Norma- tive Configurations of Cryptocurrencies, by Wessel Reijers and Mark Coeckelbergh.

This special issue introduces studies of financial technologies and finance to the field of philosophy of technology, bringing together two different fields that have not traditionally been in dialogue.

In recent years, the emergence of innovative financial technologies, such as algo- rithmic trading, online banking and payment, and cryptocurrencies has left a decisive mark on our contemporary world. In popular culture, questions have therefore been raised concerning the impact of technologies on our financial world, ethics, and politics. How do high-frequency trading algorithms impact the occurrence of Bflash crashes^ (sudden stock market crashes that happen partly due to irregularities in algorithmic trading), and how can we regulate these potentially Bimmoral^ practices (Smith 2014)? How could the blockchain, the technology underlying cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, change the relations between governments and citizens, and our notion of contractual obligations (Shubber 2016)? What role does algorithmic trading and the development of Bfinancial robots^ play in the world of big money (McGee 2016)? In parallel, the acknowledged importance of financial technologies has produced a revival of academic studies into the workings of the financial world across many different disciplines, such as anthropology (Graeber 2011; Maurer 2015), sociology (Dodd 2014; Ingham 2004), and political economy (Bjerg 2014; Karlstrøm 2014). These studies have produced a rich tapestry of new scholarship, including investigations into the diversity of monetary technologies, the global adoption of new payment methods, and the impact of digital technologies on economic and political relations.
The revived interest in the workings of money and finance represents a recovery from what Ingham framed as Bone of the most serious casualties^ of the separation and fragmentation of the social sciences (Ingham 2004, p.197). Prior to this new multidis- ciplinary interest, money and finance had been the almost exclusive domain of economic sciences, tied to and constrained by established economic models. Indeed, it was principally the ruptures preceding the 2008 financial crisis, which the economic sciences failed to predict or understand, and the devastation of the crisis itself, that prompted renewed interest in this thematic. Suddenly, scholars were trying to under- stand and open up the black box of money and finance to lay bare the specific cultures, power structures, and materialised models of the world it contained.
This special issue presents five articles that interrogate the connections between financial technology and philosophy. The authors investigate novel conceptual frame- works for understanding financial technologies, discuss specific financial technologies such as Bitcoin and high-frequency trading systems, and offer novel historical and social perspectives to think about the role of financial technologies in our social world. The included articles are: Digital Art as ‘Monetised Graphics’: Enforcing Intellectual Property on the Blockchain, by Martin Zeilinger; Fundamentals of Algorithmic Mar- kets: Liquidity, Contingency, and the Incomputability of Exchange, by Laura Lotti; ‘Crises of Modernity’ Discourses and the Rise of Financial Technologies in a Contested Mechanized World, by Marinus Ossewaarde; Two Technical Images: Blockchain and High-Frequency Trading, by Diego Viana; and The Blockchain as a Narrative Technology: Investigating the Social Ontology and Normative Configura- tions of Cryptocurrencies, by Wessel Reijers and Mark Coeckelbergh.
The thematic of money and finance has as yet only been scarcely touched upon in the field of philosophy of technology, despite the fact that money and finance represent an intricate and significant part of our technology-saturated lives. We engage daily with financial technologies, in visible and sometimes invisible ways, through e-commerce, cash withdrawals from networked ATMs, and, more opaquely, the management of subjectivities through biopower produced by secret financial algorithms (Pasquale 2015)

Despite the insistence, pervasiveness, and ubiquity of these technologies, only a few philosophical inquiries have been aimed at understanding the interplay between our monetary, financial, and technological worlds. In line with Simmel’s claim that money is Bthe purest example of the tool^ (Simmel 1900, p.225), we believe that inquiring into the intricate relation between money, finance, and technology from a philosophical point of view leads to important new insights, both for the purposes of understanding our contemporary world, and for practical insights to create a more responsible and informed ethics and politics of money and finance.
This special issue testifies to the kinds of insights about financial technologies that can be gained through the lens of philosophy of technology. First, it sheds new light on the ontology of financial technologies—on their status as mediators of human interac- tions and the ways they shape the meaning of the concepts that capture our social reality (such as liquidity, financial flows, and the circulation of money). The papers of Lotti, Viana, and Reijers and Coeckelbergh contribute to this type of novel insight concerning financial technologies, each exploring the ontology of financial technology in an innovative way. Second, this special issue demonstrates how seemingly unrelated aspects of social life, such as the arts, commerce, and law become entangled through the use of financial technologies. Zeilinger discusses art’s entanglement by exploring an emerging blockchain technology used to monetise digital art objects (such as digital images). Third, this special issue illuminates the importance of considering financial technologies and their impact on the history of ideas. Ossewaarde elucidates this connection, linking the philosophical thought of classical social thinkers Comte and Tocqueville to the contemporary debate on financial technologies and their role in the Bcrises of modernity^.
Work on the nexus between finance, financial technologies, and philosophy may also benefit social theorists, media scholars, and philosophers who study the impact of technology and new media. The contributors to this special issue show that work on money, finance, and computation can stimulate the exploration of new avenues in the ontology and politics of technology. These works draw from and complicate existing philosophical investigations of social phenomena, such as information (Floridi 2011), media and mediation (Verbeek 2005; Zielinski 2006), social ontology (Searle 1995), and artefacts (MacKenzie 2008; Winner 1980). Revisiting these theories also requires the contributors to this special issue to look beyond traditional domains for inspira- tion—for instance, to the domains of art, media, and algorithms. Moreover, this special issue introduces a number of less common authors to the field of philosophy of technology, such as Flusser, Simondon, and Ricoeur. Through financial technologies, the contributors leverage these theorists to introduce new ways of thinking about technological mediation, information, and networks that ought to be central to the field of philosophy of technology.
Searching beyond the traditional domains of philosophy, Zeilinger explores the terrain of artistic intervention into financial technologies through an analysis of the blockchain platform Monegraph. Monegraph is an emerging monetisation platform for art that attempts to create artificial scarcity for digital objects. To do so, digital art objects, according to Zeilinger, are financialised and entered into the capital flows that Btraditional^ (physical) art has long been part of. He addresses the ways that the traditional tools for managing scarce resources, namely intellectual property law (copyright), have been both flexible and yet deficient when tackling the emergence

of digital art objects. To address these perceived deficiencies in law, the Monegraph platform positions itself as a kind of better version of Digital Rights Management (DRM), which, like the DRM systems that inspired it, works to Bstand in^ for copyright law. This technological inflexibility, however, worries Zeilinger, especially when manifested in a series of Bsmart contracts^ immutably running on the blockchain. Zeilinger believes that while Monegraph’s stated intentions are good (to create value and income for digital artists), the way that the system enters digital art and artists into existing (and problematic) capital flows curtails the real emancipatory potential for digital art (as a potential site of resistance). Moreover, the birth of Monegraph curtails different or future blockchain systems that could (and should) critically intervene into these financial imperatives, rather than creating more efficient onramps to the further commercialisation of art.
Focusing on algorithmic trading, Lotti offers a response to the intrusion of compu- tational methods in finance. She philosophically investigates the concept of financial liquidity, a central concept in contemporary market-making and a term that is often used by those who defend practices of algorithmic trading. Connecting the ontology of computation with Simondon’s philosophy of technology, Lotti then proposes a new definition of financial liquidity. Lotti argues that financial liquidity should be under- stood as ontogenesis, Bthe manifestation of the coming of the being of algorithmic markets^. Lotti’s re-conceptualisation of liquidity and markets does not just make a contribution to ontology and metaphysics, it also has implications for thinking about the politics of finance. In developing this new philosophical approach, she offers an interesting synthesis of being and becoming, as applied to both finance and computa- tion. She also suggests that this gesture may support efforts to problematise price as an adequate measure of financial value, and instead seeks a different measure of worth. By resisting the neoliberal naturalisation of markets, Lotti proposes a way to see markets as inherently techno-social ensembles, which implies that markets (and their financial tools) can be changed, perhaps leading to Bthe invention of new socio-economic organisations^. As such, Lotti contributes to ongoing thinking about the nature (or rather, artificiality) of markets, and demonstrates how work in metaphysics is necessary and politically relevant to this broader topic.
Ossewaarde connects discourses about financial technologies to three distinct his- tories in the crises of modernity. The first discourse is framed by the works of Comte and Tocqueville, with the crisis of modernity marked by disruptions and social revolutions such as the French revolution of 1848 and the Industrial Revolution. Characteristically, Comte views technology as a liberating force (the triumph of Newtonian science), while Tocqueville views it as a potentially weakening and enslaving force. The second discourse is marked by the ruptures of the twentieth century—the Great Depression of 1929 as remnants of the First World War, and leading up to the terrors of the Second World War. Liberal scholars such as Titmuss defended and legitimised the Keynsian welfare state as a response to this crisis, relying on the positive impact of industrial technological development. Radical scholars such as Sorokin, however, argued that technology paralysed the creative powers of the mind. The third discourse points to the financialisation of the world, with the financial crisis of 2008 as the decisive moment of rupture. Modern liberal scholars see technologies such as algorithmic trading of derivatives as liberating people from government control, while radical scholars criticise the crisis of democracy that resulted from this

financialisation as the loss of political alternatives in the wake of the hegemony of finance. Thus, Ossewaarde presents us with a historical framework that helps makes sense of the relations between laudatory contemporary accounts of financial technolo- gies and their pessimistic counterparts, and how these can be linked to a discourse of the crises of modernity.
By connecting the ideas of the Czech philosopher Vilém Flusser to the study of financial technologies, Viana introduces a novel approach to understand high- frequency trading and blockchain technologies. Central to Viana’s inquiry is Flusser’s concept of the technical image. The technical image has three central properties: (1) it is generated by random particles that depend on underlying code, (2) it results from the activity of technical objects and systems, and (3) it implies the presence of human operators (Benvisioners^) who determine the meaningfulness of the image. The tech- nical image, therefore, differs from the traditional two-dimensional character of the image, and the one-dimensional, linear character of text, by being non-dimensional and synchronous. Viana links this conceptual development of the technical image to theories of money. In existing literature, the ontological status of money has long been debated, sometimes thought to be due to the circularity of commodities (e.g. gold), or the linearity of text (e.g. ledgers) (for a full description of these debates, see Dodd 2014). Instead, by reading new forms of money and financialisation as Btechnical images^, Viana argues that the digitalisation of finance is a non-dimensional form of money, which instead results from the calculation of present-value counterintuitively based on virtual, expected value. He uses this conceptual framework to analyse high- frequency trading, showing how it is based on algorithmic processes that create technical images of prices. He also uses the framework to analyse blockchain technol- ogies, showing that the algorithmic processes underlying the blockchain network create a technical image of Bsedimented^ time, made present in the form of virtual coins in a digital wallet. Through these two examples, Viana produces a framework for under- standing the enigmatic character of important contemporary financial technologies.
Reijers and Coeckelbergh1 develop a framework of Bnarrative technologies^ to discuss the social and political dynamics of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technol- ogies. This framework also suggests an ethics of financial technology by problematising the ways financial technologies mediate relationships between people. Re-reading Ricoer’s social theory in Time and Narrative, the authors argue that blockchain technologies are fundamentally ‘narrative’, in the sense that they rely on the social reality of a collectively held, socio-technical imaginary. In drawing this comparison, Reijers and Coeckelbergh tease out the symbolic mediations of value (as a feature of money, and a driver of social meaning). Using the example of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies, Reijers and Coeckelbergh also develop an ethics for financial technology. Deploying the framework reflexively, a series of hermeneutical possibilities emerge as a way to read latent social inscriptions. To do so, Reijers and Coeckelbergh operationalise the middle part of Ricoeur’s theoretical triad—the Bconfigured^ time that runs through the (narrative) Bplot^. With their distinctive and characteristic narrative plots, cryptocurrencies and blockchain

technologies alter our capacity to ethically use them and intervene into their design. Rather than being faced with the possibility of working through somewhat more authentic Bfirst-order^ narrative plots, these financial technologies Babstract^ away the Bactual^ characters and events, leaving Bremote^ second-order activities that are mere representations. In doing so, the complex interplay of actual entities is potentially forgotten and uncritically replaced with another second-order narrative instead.
As these articles show, this special issue marks the start of a discussion rather than its critical and conceptual conclusion. Financial technologies will continue to play a large part of our lives, and will continue to pose new ethical, epistemological, and ontolog- ical challenges daily. The contributors to this special issue had a daunting task in front of them, and rose to the occasion by revising and responding to the reviewers’ helpful feedback, and accommodating our editorial interventions. In being so willing to entertain our initial exploration of the thematic, Philosophy and Technology, its Edi- tor-in-Chief, Luciano Floridi, and Springer show that editors and publishers are open to critical new approaches. The special issue editors, Coeckelbergh, DuPont, and Reijers, would like to extend our gratitude and thanks to the authors, reviewers, and journal editors that made this work possible.

The Application of Legal-Statistical Method in Analysing Manufacturing Property􏰀s Institutional De􏰁elopment

The study defines the specifics and opportunities, that arise due to the application of statistical method in judicial research of manufacturing property.

The authors put the ground of the study on the aggregation of a vast spectrum of statistical data and indicators of patent activity of leading countries inthe sphere of technological innovation.

define the specifics and opportunities that arise due to the application of statistical method in judicial research of manufacturing property. Lack of coordination of approaches to protect manufacturing property on the international level, obstructs the development of patent activity amongst the members of the Paris Convention and significantly reduces the effectiveness of the current
patent system. Intellectual property

Authors’ development could be utilized in future developments ofRussian institute of manufacturing property and its legal framework.Originality/Value: The contribution of the article is the comprehensive analysis of legalbackground of intellectual property institute and its development prospects.

Interconnection between the legal field and economics is explained by the increasing need for legal order of economic relationships. Particular attention is paid towards property related relationships that serve as guarantee of entrepreneurial activity and economic independence not only for groups of parties, but also for separate individuals. Property is the point of contact for legal and economic spheres of public relations, results in the application of special inter-disciplinary measures of scientific analysis, not common to the legal research. Thus, during the process of modelling of judicial constructions, intended for protection of intellectual property, it is important to account that such constructions should not contain commercial turnover or obstruct business development.
Special attention should be given to the legal institute of manufacturing property. Its legal registration happened in the 21st century, and without any significant amendments it is still applied to date, without the needed adaptation for the digital and modern market conditions. Such approach reflects the overall tendency of modern jurisprudence for logical-dogmatic constructions, completely detached from the socio-economic reality. O􏰁e􏰭c􏰛ming 􏰢hi􏰠 􏱆de􏰢achmen􏰢􏱇 􏰱i􏰢h c􏰛n􏰢􏰭ib􏰟􏰢e 􏰢􏰛􏰱a􏰭d􏰠 expansion of use of statistical research methods. Being the untypical method of internal legal analysis, it also allows to obtain the relevant information for studying mass legal developments and processes, as well as the establishment of connection between legal regulators and results of judicial action, reflected in absolute and relative indicators, coefficients and other data. In modern jurisprudence (civil rights sphere in particular) the given method is applied very rarely 􏱏 mainly for the analysis of judicial activity. Furthermore, we believe that legal-statistical approach allows to precisely model settled judicial constructions and forecast their development.

2. Specifics in Legal Research of Manufacturing Property
In order to expose the spectrum of opportunities that arise due to the use of statistical method of analysis in the sphere of manufacturing property regulation it is necessary to mention some of the criticism for such method in the legal sphere.
First, legal-statistical method is a system of methods and specifics of legal analysis of quantitative characteristics of government-legal phenomena, in order to expose their qualitative specifics, fundamental development tendencies and qualities that contain legal significance.
Second, quantitative indicators collected and analysed with the use of legal- statistical method should be organised according to its common features, that has a qualitative interpretation, allowing to expose the characteristics of the investigated object. Thus, when analysing manufacturing property, this indicator is the number of

applications made for one or the other type of intellectual activity (IA) in order to obtain a patent.
Indicators, sorted accordingly to the stated features, allow for formulation of detailed conclusions, regarding the dynamics, intensity and results of scientific- technological activity that contain commercial value. It also allows to evaluate the adequacy of government and private investment, as well as the relevance to the modern technological challenges.
Third, quantitative indicators, collected with the use of legal-statistical methods, reflect the changes in the qualitative features of investigated object and the main tendencies in the development of scientific-technological sphere. For example, the analysis of the quantity of globally issued patents allows to expose the following statistical conformity: the increase in the number of patents leads to the strengthening of the subjective component, in the process of defining the criteria of patent eligibility amongst manufacturing property and therefore increases the risk of disputes regarding the issued protective documents. It is possible to forecast, that the simplification of registration procedures and reduction of patent fees will result in the increasing number of applications to obtain protective documents, simply due to existence of unpatented inventions and rising innovation activity.
Furthermore, increases in the number of patents affects the qualitative features of manufacturing property objects. In fact, the growth in the number of patents for innovations complicates the valuation of their innovation level, due to the expansion in volumes of global technological development. This lengthens and intensifies the patent expertise, as well as increases the share of dependent innovations. Number of registered instances of exclusive rights transfers for the objects of manufacturing property to the subjects of entrepreneurial activity, as a result of signed agreements of alienation or transfer of exclusive rights, reflect significant changes or established tendencies of commercialization of intellectual rights.
Indicator of effectiveness of investments funds for the scientific research is seen in the level of government patent activity. Its calculation is based on a whole range of coefficients: innovation activity (number of patent application per innovation per 10,000 people in population), self-containment, defined by the ratio of the number of domestic applications to the global number of patent applications.
Fourth, two-level model of legal protection of manufacturing property (international and national level) require the collection of several statistical indicators, in order to implement objective analysis of influence of domestic factors on the development of the considered institute, as well as to formulate a complex picture of real conditions of the object of the study. Success in solving the abovementioned tasks relies on the right selection of the methods of legal-statistical research. In fact, at the national level, the need for use of the method of selective investigations, statistical observations and quantitative analysis. International research should be conducted

via the methods of modelling, non-uniform observations, collection of analytical groups of data, complex analysis of indicators, comparative statistical analysis, comparison of statistical data.
In addition, we believe that the range of methods and approaches, not directly related to the statistical method, is important for the fully-fledged legal-statistical investigation in the manufacturing property sphere. Thus, sociological questionnaires are not only a good method to collect the information of the nature of utilisation of manufacturing property objects, but also a tool to establish connection between qualitative characteristics and their protection. For example, conducting a sociological questionnaire needs to be considered as a single method to collect representative data on the brand strength of a trademark.
Furthermore, we consider the connection between statistical method and forecasting to be equally strong. Scientifically backed systematisation of relevant statistical indicators and their dynamic rows, should become the basis for the method of composing planned events and implementation of forecasting analysis of their realisation. It may also be applied in preparing the documents of legal forecasting (programs, strategies, plans, doctrines etc.). One of the simplest approaches of such analysis is extrapolation, which is composed of the transfer of past and present indicators, that impact the object being investigated in the future period, as well as all the later instances of decision-making, in order to improve the normative-legal regulation in the sphere of manufacturing property.
For example, Ministry of Education of the Russian Federation has made a forecast, predicting that the number of patent applications from the Russian universities will grow by 60% in the nearest future. However, the chances of such forecast are being undermined by the Rospatent data, which suggests that over the last 5 years, the number of application has contracted by 20% (including the numbers coming from the Russian Universities decreasing by 13.8%) and in 2017 these indicators were at the minimum level and accounted for 22,7 thousand applications (RUPTO MINOBR, 2019). A small growth in the number of applications in 2018 amounted for 5.4% which has no serious impact on the current situation.
For comparison, it is important to note, that according to the data from the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPA), global tendencies are as follows: number of applications for inventions has increased by 108.3%, useful models 􏱏 129% and manufacturing samples 􏱏 108.3% (WIPO, 2019).
3. The Application of Statistical Method for the Analysis of the Definition 􏱆Manufacturing Propert􏰪􏱇
Legal-statistical analysis of manufacturing property contains a number of phases, including the establishment of real state of the following phenomenon, formulation of the model of manufacturing property and the following reveal of its development

tendencies. It is important to establish statistical indicators (especially the official statistical reports) that define qualitative characteristics of manufacturing property, as well as comparison of normative approach and its actual definition.
T􏰭adi􏰢i􏰛nall􏰪, 􏰢he j􏰟􏰭idical li􏰢e􏰭a􏰢􏰟􏰭e a􏰠􏰠􏰟me􏰠 􏰢ha􏰢 􏰢he defini􏰢i􏰛n 􏰛f 􏱆man􏰟fac􏰢􏰟􏰭ing 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰬e􏰭􏰢􏰪􏱇 i􏰠 f􏰛􏰭m􏰟la􏰢ed in 􏰢he C􏰛n􏰁en􏰢i􏰛n f􏰛􏰭 man􏰟fac􏰢􏰟􏰭ing 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰬e􏰭􏰢􏰪 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰢ec􏰢i􏰛n a􏰠 of 20th of March 1883 (Gavrilov, 2015). It is difficult to agree with, since the first page of the Convention only lists the legal objects (inventions, useful models, manufacturing samples, trade-marks, brand titles, origination titles of the product, preventions of unlawful competition), which are supported by the rights protection. Consequently, the Convention does not provide the definition, but simply lists the objects that are protected in the form of manufacturing property (Paris Convention for Manufacturing Property Protection).
Given this, the terminology formulated by the Convention cannot address a vast variety of criticisms. First, the reference to manufacturing as a sphere of utilisation of protected objects of civil relations. At the following stage of economic development, the turnover of objects of manufacturing property contains all the spheres of human activity, related to the creation and commercial use of technical Results of Intellectual Property (RIP), that possess the qualities of common use and potential to bring benefits not only to the rights holder, but also to the producers that contain the intellectual product and the potential consumers. To paraphrase the statement of E.A. Sukhanov, the defini􏰢i􏰛n 􏰛f 􏱆man􏰟fac􏰢􏰟􏰭ing 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰬e􏰭􏰢􏰪􏱇 i􏰠 conditional, since it does not relate to the definition of property and is not exclusive to manufacturing (Sukhanov, 2008).
Second, the establishment of a contained list of objects, the rights that are protected under the regime of manufacturing property contradicts the modern concept of intellectual rights, that assumes rights protection to any creative result of intellectual activity from the moment of its emergence. For example, in the Russian Federation (RF) the following approach is supported in p. 44 of the Constitution of the RF.
As a result, the newly created scientific-technical results and conditional definition with certain juridical value, like commercial designations, production secrets (know- how) cannot be defined as commercial property in accordance to the Convention. It is important to point out, that the listed RIPs are supported by the laws of legal protection. However, there exists several creative results that have the potential of protected objects, without any normative expression. For the collection and analysis, Federal Institute of Government Statistics of the Russian Federation (Rosstat) has in􏰢􏰭􏰛d􏰟ced a defini􏰢i􏰛n 􏱆n􏰛n-􏰬a􏰢en􏰢ed in􏰁en􏰢i􏰛n􏰠􏱇, 􏰱hich incl􏰟de􏰠 􏰢he f􏰛ll􏰛􏰱ing scientific-technological results: those including an application, with absence of patent for the invention; the application was not performed in order to preserve the secrecy of the product information; those related to the fields of bio-engineering and pharmacology.

We do not agree with the view point of the authors, who propose for the inclusion of this category into the scientific procedures and its legislative support, since Rosstat demonstrates the potential for controversies at the international level and collusions between the regimes of legal protection and actual demands from the innovations market, which can be shown through the use of statistical method.
Finally, the main deficiency of the Convention is the absence of the necessary international standards in defining the patent compatibility of the objects of manufacturing property, including commonly accepted qualities which should be present amongst all the results of intellectual activity, protected in the form of manufacturing property.
Given the above-mentioned deficiencies, we realise that the definition of 􏱆man􏰟fac􏰢􏰟􏰭ing 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰬e􏰭􏰢􏰪􏱇 􏰢ha􏰢 ha􏰠 emerged in jurisprudence during the epoch of connection of scientific knowledge and manufacturing production, which became 􏰢he 􏰬􏰭ec􏰟􏰭􏰠􏰛􏰭 􏰛f 􏰢he 􏱆􏰢echn􏰛l􏰛g􏰪􏱇 ca􏰢eg􏰛􏰭􏰪, need􏰠 to be preserved as a common definition for the protected RIPs, possessing commercial value in the scientific- technological sphere. I􏰢 i􏰠 im􏰬􏰛􏰭􏰢an􏰢 􏰢􏰛 􏰬􏰛in􏰢 􏰛􏰟􏰢, 􏰢ha􏰢 􏰢he Pa􏰢en􏰢 La􏰱 􏰛f 􏰢he Pe􏰛􏰬le􏰀􏰠 Republic of China, which since 2011 has become an undoubtable leader in terms of the number of patent applications (more than 1 million per year), uses the commonly accepted definition of innovation achievement (General Introduction to the Third Re􏰁i􏰠i􏰛n 􏰛f 􏰢he Pa􏰢en􏰢 La􏰱 􏰛f 􏰢he Pe􏰛􏰬le􏰀􏰠 Re􏰬􏰟blic 􏰛f China and i􏰢􏰠 Implementing Regulations
236
  ), while the modernization of the patent legislation is carried out in the
 direction of unification of criteria of patent compatibility amongst inventions.Therefore, manufacturing property may refer to non-material property in the form of intellectual products or subjective intellectual rights, protected by a patent or some other form of documentation, registered formally, possessing legal capabilities to participate in the civil relations and with the potential to be used in themanufacturing and scientific-technological sphere.The following approach contributes towards a concrete separation of objects that contain patent capabilities, yet without the support of legal protection of international acts and national legislation regarding intellectual property, that are at the stage of application or registration, as well as objects under patent protection. Such classification allows to establish legal regimes for protection of rights holders of all the above-mentioned objects for their participation in civil relations. Thisallows to establish qualitative characteristics of manufacturing property, optimize the procedures of registrations and speed up the implementation of technical RIPsinto the civil relations.
 4.
The Use of Statistical Method for Normative Forecasting of
 Manufacturing Property􏰀s Institutional Development

Analysis of statistical data for the development of manufacturing property institution allows to highlight several important tendencies. A simple increase in the public and private expenditure for technological innovation does not equal to the growth in the number of patent applications for innovation, useful model or manufacturing samples. According to the Rosstat data, domestic R&D expenditure in the Russian Federation is estimated at 1,019.2 billion RUB, which equals to 1.11 GDP (out of which 66,2% is government funded, 30,2% is enterprise funds) (Gorodnikova, 2019). Technological innovation expenditure of SMEs in Russia has increased by20% over the past 5 years, and now equals to 20 billion RUB.Furthermore, in the period of 2016-2017, according to the Rospatent data, there is an observed decrease in the number of innovation application by 12.3%, in usefulmodels by 4.2%. Only with respect to manufacturing sample applications there is an observed positive dynamic in the period between 2000 and 2017. Their number has increased 2.8 times. However, legal-statistical analysis shows that with respect to criteria of self-sufficiency and dependency, the level of patent activity in manufacturing samples is also decreasing. Thus, the share of domestic and international applications in 2000 was at 83.8% and 16.2%, while in 2017 􏱏 41.1%and 58.9%.It is obvious, that the efficiency indicators for financial expenditures should be the return on investment in the form of domestic utilization of intellectual products and the following benefits (income) attributed to the third parties. Statistical data demonstrates positive dynamic in the increasing number of RIPs used in the Russian Federation 2.6 times during the period between 2005 and 2017. Given this, 45% of the utilized RIPs are innovations, second place is taken by programmes for electronic computers 􏱏 around 25%, followed by useful models 􏱏 just over 16%. Prioritised spheres of utilisation are manufacturing production (around 44%) and the sphere of scientific research and development (around 32%) (Annual report, 2000;2017).However, the analysed Rospatent data on the number of registered orders for exclusive rights for the innovations, useful models and manufacturing samples, allows us to establish, that the growth indicators for the utilisation are related to the imported RIPs. In the period between 2013 and 2017 in the Russian Federation, the number of registered orders, which in fact represents the number of agreements for the transfer of exclusive rights to the objects of manufacturing property hasdecreased from 3123 to 2991.The above-mentioned indicators confirm that a simple increase in the financial expenditures in R&D and scientific-technological development cannot be viewed as a self-sufficient measure to increase the level of effectiveness and commercialisation of manufacturing property sphere. This conclusion may seem obvious, however it still requires a basis, as according to the statistical data in 2015, around 15% of all organisations conducting innovation activity in the manufacturing sector of the

economy of the Russian Federation have considered a lack of internal funds and financial support from the government, as a main factor hindering technological innovation. For comparison only 3.5% have mentioned the lack of normative-legalregulations (Gorodnikova et al., 2018).Therefore, it is important to highlight, that in the international rating for network preparation, in the context of Global Economic Forum in 2016, Russia was placed 88th out of 139 countries based on normative foundation conditions. Based on the indicator of intellectual property protection, Russia was ranked 123rd (D-RUSSIA,2016).
Furthermore, the analysis of the applications for the variety of manufacturing property objects allows us to expose the effectiveness of scientific-technological research and development, via establishing the level of government patent activity, as well as indicate the disproportionality in the economic development. The level of government patent activity is calculated through the share of applications related to manufacturing property objects to GDP. On the basis of WIPA data for the 3rd of May 2018, the leading countries in terms of the level of patent activity are South Korea (innovations, manufacturing samples) and China (trademarks). For example, South Korea has overtaken USA in this indicator, which was the leading country in terms of active patents in 2016, by 5 times. The ratio of trademarks in China is 8 times greater than in the USA, and 3.2 times greater than in Russia.
In order to characterise the growth of the Russian economy, only the growth in the level of trademarks in the period between 2000-2017 may be considered positive (2.7 times). However, if we account for the decreasing level of patent activity regarding innovations and useful models, the disproportion is striking 􏱏 the level of trade outweighs the manufacturing sectors of the economy. In fact, it is the manufacturing activity in the Russian Federation that in 2017 utilised applied RIPs 138 times more than the trade sphere (Annual Report, 2017).
The analysis of Rospatent activity allows us to conclude, that the imperfections of the current patent system cannot be resolved through simple speeding up of registration procedures. Thus, Rospatent statistics for the 2016 and 2017 suggest the reduction in the waiting time for the application considerations from 10,43 months to 8,37 months (average time for application consideration for useful models and manufacturing samples is around 9 months (RUPTO, 2018). It is important to highlight, that the overall decrease in the time for registration procedures and high level of service provided by Rospatent (judicial review of 0,5% of Rospatent actions has not resulted in the increasing number of patent applications (RUPTO, 2016).
The solution to the problem of modernization of the patent system may be found in the development of manufacturing property rights in the two directions: unification of the patent registration procedures amongst the Paris Convention members and their simplification via a wide implementation of cutting-edge technologies (such as

blockchain), which can provide a high level of protection and speed up the registration processes.
The first direction is being actively promoted due to the transfer of Paris Convention member-c􏰛􏰟n􏰢􏰭ie􏰠 􏰛n􏰢􏰛 􏰢he 􏰬a􏰢en􏰢ing 􏰠􏰪􏰠􏰢em 􏰛n 􏱆fi􏰭􏰠􏰢 c􏰛me fi􏰭􏰠􏰢 􏰠e􏰭􏰁ed􏱇 ba􏰠i􏰠, which is popular on the territory of all the leading countries in terms of innovation development. Such statement can be easily supported, since USA has also changed its system after the implementation of Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, as well as the compliance of American legislation with the international standards.
The significance of blockchain technology for the development of manufacturing property is evident in the fact that it allows to simplify registration procedures and background checks for RIPs, which may not be supported by legislation; management and commercialization of RIPs by the rights holder without broker involvement, which simplifies and makes the intellectual products turnover cheaper; turnover of intellectual resources on the mutually beneficial conditions for the owner and the consumer; solution of problems related to transactions, such as confidentiality, security, data wholeness, reduction of transaction costs, automatic agreements via smart-contracts, payments, interactions and etc. (Shatkovskaya, 2018).
The discretion of legal protection of scientific-technological results in the form of concrete objects of patent law, which ensure the individualization of participants of commercial turnover, their products, services and enterprises complicates and limits the protection of right holders, users and consumers of intellectual property in the scientific-technological sphere. Analysis of statistical data shows, that during the entrepreneurial valuation of protection methods of scientific research, the priority is given to the methods that do not require registration, in order to preserve commercial secrets and secrecy of know-how (Figure 1).
The first step to overcome the discretion of manufacturing property protection is the development of universal criteria and legal regimes for the two main groups of patented objects and means of individualization. Regarding the patented objects in the Russian Federation, the development is already happening. Thus, since 2015 the civil legislation includes the qualitative characteristics of innovations and useful models, such as novelty and manufacturing applicability, which have the same meaning. This significantly simplifies the patent application procedures for the following objects.
5. Results of the Study
Therefore, legal-statistical research of the manufacturing property institute allows highlighting a number of negative and positive tendencies in the modern development of legal regulations of the manufacturing property institution.

Relationship between compulsory registration and those without compulsory registration protection methods for scientific-technological developments for enterprise valuation in the manufacturing sector of Russia (Gorodnikova et al., 2018).

The negative tendencies include the volume and legal means of protection of the given institution. Thus, on the one hand, the current norms of international and domestic (in the example of the Russian Federation) legislation, artificially limits the sphere of activity of legal protection, imposing national barriers and boundaries for the manufacturing activity of the authors. Furthermore, the established discretion of the protected objects, in the sense that manufacturing property protection may only be applied to the scientific-technological results, which comply with the current demands towards innovation, useful models, manufacturing samples and logos, that contain the properties of trade-marks, firm name or information about the origination of the product. As a result, the creative, technological solutions, that possess commercial value and are technically used in the innovation development, protected by the author while satisfying the legal demands of enterprises are left behind the legal boundaries.
On the other hand, the establishment of subjective-evaluative definitions in the form of conditions for exclusive and patent rights, complicates and lengthens the registration procedures for the objects of manufacturing property, as well as provokes the contraction of patented intellectual assets of an organization, while increasing the number of legal disputes.
For future development of intellectual scientific-technological products in the Russian Federation, there is a negative tendency in the absence of orientation on commercial attractiveness of scientific-technological and construction findings (Vovchenko and Epifanova, 2018). Thus, the stated criteria is absent in the form of compulsory demands to be included in the technological solutions in the number of 100 potential innovations in Russia. For an innovation to be included in this list, it

should comply with the strategical direction of scientific and technological development set out by the government. Commercial effect from the integration of these developments is considered in the stand-by regime. However, patent holders will be able to break-even on the investments only in the case of commercial attractiveness of the object in the market and its legal protection on the territory of all the members of Paris Convention.
Only when the international community will develop the unified approaches to 􏰟nde􏰭􏰠􏰢anding 􏰛f 􏱆man􏰟fac􏰢􏰟􏰭ing 􏰬􏰭􏰛􏰬e􏰭􏰢􏰪􏱇, ag􏰭ee 􏰛n 􏰢he 􏰟ni􏰁e􏰭􏰠al legal 􏰭egime􏰠 􏰛f its protection and overcome territorial barriers to formulate a universal system, the legal protection for manufacturing property will become possible. Furthermore, the solution of this problem is a necessary condition to increase the patent activity of global innovation leaders (Shatkovskaya, 2017). Over the past 5 years, the WIPA statistics demonstrates the absence of growth dynamics amongst all the counties, with the exception of China. The following indicators suggest, that in the conditions of current stage of technological revolution the result will either be the government rejecting its territorial ambitions in the sphere of patenting, of the current patent system will give the way to technological means of protection.
Positive tendencies of manufacturing property development are the global tendency to develop universal criteria for the main groups of manufacturing property (patented objects and means of individualization), acceptance of normative solutions to overcome the discretion of their legal systems, expansion of the list of objects of manufacturing property (production secrets (know-how), selective achievements, commercial titles), as well as unique experience of development and implementation of the unified Eurasian patent for innovations.



A Blockchain-Based Traceable IP Copyright Protection Algorithm


ABSTRACT Current Intellectual Property (IP) copyright protection technologies have low efficiency of authority management, traceability, and scalability. In this work, a blockchain-based IP copyright protection algorithm is proposed to address these issues by establishing a mathematical model of quadratic matrix transformation for IP circuit trading. This algorithm proposes the design of a distributed random embedding mechanism and position mapping function that, when IP trading occurs in blockchain, the traceable mapping function can trace the copyright information in IP trading with the mapping factor. Besides, this work analyzes the credibility, transparency, overhead, and complexity. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can resist replaying attacks, yet the copyright information can be rapidly retrieved after suffered from attacks. Still, the proposed algorithm has higher security, stability, and traceability.

The concept of Blockchain originates from the approach of point-to-point electronic payment, initiated in 2008 [1]–[4]. Initially, such an approach was not widely conceived. Though, with the stable running and fast development of Bit- coin, Blockchain increasingly attracts interests from diverse topics from all over the world. At present, the Blockchain is being applied in the fields of finance, wireless communica- tion, intelligent vehicle, health, the Internet of Things (IoT), among several others. The traditional social trust mechanism is established based on trust endorsement of the government, which supports social trust. Therefore, it is difficult to estab- lish trust between two unknown entities directly yet without the participation of a third center, so the Blockchain technol- ogy addresses the trust problem in the decentralized system by using the verification of distributed nodes and consensus mechanism. In this case, IP trading can realize information transmission and value transfer that changes the network framework from "information internet" to "value internet".

The circuit blockchain achieves trustable trading without the participation of any intermediary agency, so significant the revolution in credible IP trading. The features of Blockchain in-circuit copyright protection are illustrated in [7], [8], as:
(1) IP circuit trading has high efficiency and low cost. Traditional IP protection realized IP circuit trading by uti- lizing computer cluster that requires significant overhead in running and maintenance. The blockchain-based IP protec- tion method makes nodes rapidly added to the Blockchain by POW, POS, PBFT, among others. In this case, the copyright of the circuit can pass the verification of the Blockchain net- work, so the participation degree of nodes in the Blockchain is significantly increased. Besides, the speed of IP circuit trading and protection is also improved, realizing low cost in IP trading,
(2) The supervision efficiency of IP circuit protection is improved via Blockchain. The blockchain makes each element in the system completely transparent. The consen- sus mechanism ensures the balance and data consistency of Blockchain, as the decentralization is realized by using the public distributed supervision. It dramatically reduces fraud behavior, achieving better IP protection in the blockchain,

(3) Higher Fault-tolerance and robustness. In a distributed Blockchain network, other nodes can normally run even a specific node is impaired, ensuring the security and reliability of a distributed system. Blockchain is an entirely decen- tralized point-to-point network, including many distributed nodes and servers. It can realize excellent reliability, as each node in Blockchain stores a complete copy of the accounting book, achieving good fault-tolerance and robustness.
To adapt to the intensely competitive electronic mar- ket environment, various semiconductor companies consider shortening the IC design cycle and reducing product costs and risks. IP circuit modules are easily being misappropriated and destroyed by malicious users that cause immeasurable eco- nomic losses and breaks the fairness of market competition. To protect the copyright of digital products, many research institutes attempt to research chip security and practical tech- nology based on the Blockchain. At present, IP watermarking technologies are aimed to insert copyright information into IP design [9]–[11]. When IP disputes occur, it is convenient to extract watermark information from the suspected IP design, so thus proving the copyright.

II. RELATED WORK
In recent years, the increase of user privacy leakage and security events makes abundant data collection and con- trol of the suspected third party. Blockchain is widely used in the financial field that ensures essential privacy data. Zyskind et al. [12] realized a protocol to transform Blockchain into an automatic access controller without a credible third party. This controller carries instructions, store, query, and share data, which addresses the dependable com- putation issue. Specialized Blockchain lacks performance analysis theory and data support of consistent algorithm, so Hao et al. [13] proposed a scheme to evaluate the per- formance of the consistency algorithm based on Ethereum and Hyperledger, where the results of a consistency algorithm under different transactions can be generated by quantified analysis of delay and throughput that provides quantified data support for researches in the consensus algorithm.
Internet-of-Things (IoT) is widely used in diverse fields nowadays and has higher requirements for data exchange. Huang et al. [14] proposed a Blockchain-based trustable data exchange scheme, as it analyzes three credible requirements of data exchange in IoT and demonstrates the basic principle and critical technologies of Blockchain. Besides, it provides detailed architecture and design of the main credible compo- nents for a prototype by Ethereum Blockchain and intelligent contract, where the visualized functions are shown. Presently, few researches focused on the reliability of Blockchain in the circuit layer that makes the security and privacy vulnerable to be affected by hardware errors. To reduce such an impact, Xiao et al. [15] proposed a reliability-based circuit unit eval- uation method that utilizes an iteration probability transmis- sion matrix to calculate the output reliability of any wire. The gradient of the reliability of the circuit unit is generated by

gradient and bucket theories. Further, the importance of the circuit unit is reordered by the reliability gradient.
With the sensitized path coverage rate and sequence com- parison, the importance based reordering algorithm with the same reliability gradients is constructed. The critical cir- cuit unit is enhanced based on reordering results, improving the security and privacy of Blockchain architecture in the hardware layer. Experimental results show that the proposed scheme achieves higher accuracy, lower complexity, and cost.
IP trading protection technologies can be classified into two categories, including the untraceable method and trace- able method. There are some differences between them. A traditional IP protection method cannot ensure the trace- able flow, which makes the protected design be easily attacked or misappropriated while the traceable method can record the operation of the uploaded system and trace the whole flow of the design after adding in the Blockchain. The proper behavior of each user is allowed, as it ensures the sta- bility and full protection of the system. Besides, the users who participate in the implementation of consensus mechanisms will be rewarded.
In this work, a traceable IP circuit protection method is proposed under the blockchain environment. The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 proposes the mathematical model of traceable trading protection, Section 3 introduces the IP trading algorithm, including embedding, verification and tracing of copyright informa- tion, and the performance analyses in terms of credibility, transparency, overhead, and complexity in Section 4. It is conducted in Section 5 experiments to evaluate the stability and security of the proposed algorithm, the validity of the proposed algorithm is verified, and finally, this work is sum- marized.
III. MATHEMATICAL MODEL
In this section, the design of a mapping function to trace the content of IP circuit trading under the Blockchain envi- ronment is discussed, where a circuit can be protected by adding a watermark. As an attacker intends to destroy the content of IP trading, he should attack the watermark in the IP circuit first, given that the copyright requires verification, the traceable mapping function can be used to restore the impaired information [16]–[18]. The mathematical model of quadratic matrix transformation is defined as follows.
Definition 1: Assuming A be a n-rank matrix. If a number   and n dimensional nonzero vector ⇠ satisfy A⇠ =  ⇠,   is called the characteristic value of matrix A. The nonzero vector ⇠ is the characteristic vector of value   of matrix A.
Definition 2: If two vectors ⇠1, ⇠2 satisfy ⇠1T ⇠2 = 0, ⇠1 and ⇠2 are orthogonal.
Definition 3: If n-rank matrix A satisfies AT = A, matrix A is symmetric matrix; If n-rank matrix satisfies AT A = E , A
 1 T is orthogonal matrix, namely, A = A .
Theorem 1: Let  1 and  2 are the characteristic values of the symmetric matrix A. If  1 6=  2, the characteristic vectors ⇠1 and ⇠2 are orthogonal.


gradient and bucket theories. Further, the importance of the circuit unit is reordered by the reliability gradient.
With the sensitized path coverage rate and sequence com- parison, the importance based reordering algorithm with the same reliability gradients is constructed. The critical cir- cuit unit is enhanced based on reordering results, improving the security and privacy of Blockchain architecture in the hardware layer. Experimental results show that the proposed scheme achieves higher accuracy, lower complexity, and cost.
IP trading protection technologies can be classified into two categories, including the untraceable method and trace- able method. There are some differences between them. A traditional IP protection method cannot ensure the trace- able flow, which makes the protected design be easily attacked or misappropriated while the traceable method can record the operation of the uploaded system and trace the whole flow of the design after adding in the Blockchain. The proper behavior of each user is allowed, as it ensures the sta- bility and full protection of the system. Besides, the users who participate in the implementation of consensus mechanisms will be rewarded.
In this work, a traceable IP circuit protection method is proposed under the blockchain environment. The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 proposes the mathematical model of traceable trading protection, Section 3 introduces the IP trading algorithm, including embedding, verification and tracing of copyright informa- tion, and the performance analyses in terms of credibility, transparency, overhead, and complexity in Section 4. It is conducted in Section 5 experiments to evaluate the stability and security of the proposed algorithm, the validity of the proposed algorithm is verified, and finally, this work is sum- marized.
III. MATHEMATICAL MODEL
In this section, the design of a mapping function to trace the content of IP circuit trading under the Blockchain envi- ronment is discussed, where a circuit can be protected by adding a watermark. As an attacker intends to destroy the content of IP trading, he should attack the watermark in the IP circuit first, given that the copyright requires verification, the traceable mapping function can be used to restore the impaired information [16]–[18]. The mathematical model of quadratic matrix transformation is defined as follows.
Definition 1: Assuming A be a n-rank matrix. If a number   and n dimensional nonzero vector ⇠ satisfy A⇠ =  ⇠,   is called the characteristic value of matrix A. The nonzero vector ⇠ is the characteristic vector of value   of matrix A.
Definition 2: If two vectors ⇠1, ⇠2 satisfy ⇠1T ⇠2 = 0, ⇠1 and ⇠2 are orthogonal.
Definition 3: If n-rank matrix A satisfies AT = A, matrix A is symmetric matrix; If n-rank matrix satisfies AT A = E , A
 1 T is orthogonal matrix, namely, A = A .
Theorem 1: Let  1 and  2 are the characteristic values of the symmetric matrix A. If  1 6=  2, the characteristic vectors ⇠1 and ⇠2 are orthogonal.

1) IP WATERMARK GENERATION
IP watermark generation includes three parts, including copyright information preprocessing, construction of self- recovery mapping factor, and identification combination [22]. The flow of generation is shown in Fig.1. The original IP

The matrix A⇤ is generated by combining A and A0, obtaining the original copyright information X1, X2, · · · , Xn. Addi- tionally, Xi = CYi,i = 1,2,...,n can also be used to reconfigure the original copyright information.
The pseudo-code of the IP watermark generation algorithm is described as follows.
Algorithm 1 Watermark Generation Algorithm
Input: Copyright information m, symmetric matrix A, A0 Output: Watermark sequence G
1. m is transformed into a binary sequence and divided into X1, X2, · · · , Xn the same length after DES encryption; 2.f (X)=XTAX,f0(X)=XTA0X;
3.Withtheorem3,X =CY andX =C0Y;
4. i=1
5. while in do
6.fi =XTAXi,f0 =XTA0Xi; iii
As listed in Table 1, we denote
(f1,f2),(f2,f1),...,(fn 1,fn), (fn, fn 1) , (Y1, Y2) ,
(Y2,Y1),..., Yn0 1,Yn0 , Yn0,Yn0 1 , (13)
   7.Yi =CTXi,Yi0 =C0TXi;
8. gi 1 = fi,gn+i 1 = Yi,g2n+i 1 = fi ,g3n+i 1 = Yi ;
In Table.1, the first row is watermark and the second row is watermark position. All the programmable units CLB are read from the original FPGA design. The LUT resources are scanned with the Z-traversal method due to the feature of FPGA. The embedding positions are generated by searching the corresponding coordinates.
The embedding positions can be denoted by the corre- sponding matrix. 0 is unused and 1 is used resources. It can establish a symmetric matrix D. The quadratic transformation model is used to enhance the security of real positions. There- fore, a quadratic f (X ) = X T DX can be constructed. With (7), there exists an orthogonal transformation X = C0Y. A new matrix D0 is generated. Even the attacker captures the matrix D0, he cannot know the real watermark positions. Therefore, the embedded watermark information will not be removed, improving the security of the watermark.
(2) Identical logic configuration. The generated water- marks will be configured into the LUT resource by identical logic. The identical logic circuit will not change the output. Namely, the input of the logic is the same as the output. For any signal Si,i = 0,1,2,..., it satisfies Si k0 = Si, Si&1 = Si. The logic 0 and 1 are respectively named identical logic 0 and identical logic 1. By analyzing the feature of identical logic, when two flip-flops are reversed, the output is constant 0 after an And gate.
If a functional signal is or-ed with the identical logic 0, the output will not be changed. Therefore, the output will be equal to the functional signal, demonstrating that the redundant logic will not change the normal functionality of the circuit.
The pseudo-code of the traceable watermark embedding algorithm is illustrated as follows.
3) TRADING INFORMATION VERIFICATION ALGORITHM
In the Blockchain-based trading environment, trading information verification includes determining positions of copyright information, splitting copyright information, pre- processing and information verification [27]–[29].
0
With the quadratic matrix transformation model, the embed- ding algorithm selects the watermark positions L = {L0 , L1 , . . . , L4n 1 }. All the programmable units CLB are read from the original FPGA design. The LUT resources are scanned with the Z-traversal method due to the feature of FPGA [23]–[25], as it ensures each LUT be accessed. Finally, the target positions are found to embed the watermarks. Also, the symmetric matrix D represents the watermark position. 0 denotes unused resource and 1 denotes used resource. Therefore, a quadratic f(X) = XTDX can be constructed. With(7),thereexistsanorthogonaltransformationX =C0Y. A new matrix D0 is generated. Even the attacker captures the matrix D0, he cannot know the real watermark positions. Therefore, the embedded watermark information will not be removed, which improves the security of the watermark. Finally, the sequence G is embedded into LUTs by logic configuration under the constraint of L [26].
The procedure of watermark embedding is illustrated as follows.
Position generation: With the generation procedure of reversible copyright information, we have gi = fi+1; gn+i =
9. end while
2) WATERMARK EMBEDDING ALGORITH
0
 (1) D = C⇤D0C⇤T can be calculated with the matrix D0 00⇤
Yi+1;g2n+i = fi+1;g3n+i = Yi+1;i = 0,1,...,n   1. and C . Matrix D is used to restore the embedding position

Algorithm 2 Watermark Embedding Algorithm
Input: Original design S, sequence G = {g0,g1,...,g4n 1} 0 0
Output: watermarked design S , D
1. With G = {g0, g1, . . . , g4n 1}, the watermark positions L = {L0, L1, . . . , L4n 1} are generated,
2. L = {L0, L1, . . . , L4n 1} is transformed into the sym- metric matrix D, T 3.Constructaquadraticf(X)=X DX, 4.With(7),anorthogonaltransformationX =C⇤Y,exists and a new matrix D0 is generated,
5. A sequence G is embedded with the constraint of L,
6. S0 = S.
L = {L0 , L1 , . . . , L4n 1 }. The corresponding LUT resources with specific identical logic can be searched.
(2) Based on the embedding position L = {L0, L1, . . . , L4n 1}, the reversible mapping factor fi,Yi,fi0,Yi0,i = 1,2,...,n can be calculated, namely the watermark sequence G = {g0, g1, . . . , g4n 1}. As in the procedure of watermark generation, the length of the frag- ment is fixed. Thus, it can be combined with the reversed procedure. Finally, encrypted watermarks X1, X2, · · · , Xn can be calculated as Xi = CYi,i = 1,2,...,n.
(3) In the Blockchain-based IP trading procedure, the watermark generation realizes DES encryption. Thus, the verification should decrypt the extracted information and finally restore the original copyright information m.
(4) The restored copyright information m is compared to the declared one of the IP owner. If both are consistent, the trading is legal.
The pseudo-code of the trading information verification algorithm is described as follows.
Algorithm 3 Trading Information Verification Algorithm
Input: D0, secret file C⇤, C0, C
Output: Original copyright information m
1. Calculate D = C⇤D0C⇤T
2. RestorewatermarkedpositionsL={L0,L1,...,L4n 1}
design. Traditionally, the content of copyright information is difficult to be restored after suffered an attack, so the authentication fails. In this section, a restoration mechanism is used to trace the behavior of attackers and restore accu- rate copyright information. After restoring the embedding position L = {L0 , L1 , . . . , L4n 1 }, the reversible mapping factorfi,Yi,fi0,Yi0,i = 1,2,...,n,namelythesequenceG = {g0, g1, . . . , g4n 1} can be extracted. As the procedure of the watermark generation, the length of the fragment is fixed, and therefore, it can be combined with the reversed procedure. With the secret-sharing mechanism presented in section 3, any k groups of sequence can restore the original copyright information. The matrix B, B0 can be calculated by solving the equation set in (10).
n⇣f ,Y ,f0,Y0 ⌘,⇣f ,Y ,f0,Y0 ⌘,...,⇣f ,Y ,f0,Y0 ⌘o i1 i1 i1 i1 i2 i2 i2 i2 ik ik ik ik
  Therefore, X1, X2, · · · , Xn is generated by calculating and T0 000T
  with D;
3. Search the watermark sequence G,
1,2,...,n with L;
4. while in do
5.Xi =CYi,Xi =C0Yi0;
6. end while;
fi , Yi , fi0 , Yi0 , i
=
V. ALGORITHM ANALYSIS
In this work, we proposed a quadratic matrix transformation model based traceable IP protection algorithm. In the IP trading procedure, we utilize the model and realize a (k,n) secret sharing scheme, as the impaired IP copyright fragments can be reconfigured. The proposed algorithm can compensate for the drawbacks of the existing IP protection algorithms in resistance against attacks. This section mainly analyzes the performance in terms of credibility, transparency and overhead.
A. CREDIBILITY ANALYSIS
The proposed algorithm combines the quadratic matrix trans- formation model and the secret-sharing mechanism, ensuring the credibility of the proposed algorithm. The probability of coincidence is the probability that the non-watermarked IP circuit carries the same watermarks with the watermarked IP circuit, which depends on the number of inserted watermarks. If more watermarks are inserted, the probability of coinci- dence is smaller. Still, it can be used as a metric to evaluate the credibility of copyright authentication.
Based on the approach of Blockchain-based distributed trading algorithms, the copyright information is transformed into fragments for embedding. Let the number of fragments is n0, and n the number of unused lookup tables. The probability to detect m watermark positions from n unused positions is 1/Cn . Assuming that the probability that the selected positions ‘‘include’’ watermark fragments is P0 and ‘‘not include’’ the watermark fragments is P1. The probability of coincidence Pc can be calculated as follows:
1 n (n n)
Pc = Cm(P0) 0(P1) 0 (14)
n
The proposed algorithm transforms the copyright informa- tion into a group of reversible mapping factors, which are

4) THE TRACEABILITY OF IP CIRCUIT
In IP copyright trading, attackers attempt to destroy or remove the copyright information in the IP circuit. Some detection tools are used to evaluate or analyze the target IP circuit. After determining the existence of copyright information, they may remove it and obtain next the non-watermarked

transformation model, and the generated mapping factors will be embedded in the design. Therefore, with the same length of copyright information, the proposed algorithm has less actually embedded content, causing less impact on resource and delay.
D. COMPLEXITY ANALYSIS
The core of the quadratic matrix transformation model-based
reversible protection algorithm is to rapidly calculate the
reversible mapping factors of the copyright information and
restore the original copyright. For the symmetric matrix
A, the quadratic matrix transformation model is established
in section 3. With the formulas (8) and (9), the reversible
mapping factors fi,Yi,i = 1,2,...,n and fi0,Yi0,i =
1, 2, . . . , n are generated. The time complexity of the algo-
rithm is O (n). Moreover, the embedded information is G =
49538
VOLUME 8, 2020
L. Xiao et al.: Blockchain-Based Traceable IP Copyright Protection Algorithm
{g0,g1,...,g4n 1}andthesecretinformationiss = A.A0 isa   2 
n⇥n matrix. The space complexity of the algorithm is O n . In other words, the time complexity of the proposed algorithm is not high and the space complexity has better superiority.
VI. EXPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS
In this section, several experiments to evaluate the perfor- mance of the proposed algorithm are conducted. Typical benchmarks are selected for testing, and the utilized platform is Xilinx Virtex II Pro XC2VP4 FPGA. The performance is mainly evaluated in terms of stability and security. The detection stability is the probability of detection accuracy of the embedding watermark and the security is analyzed by false alarm rate of detection.
A. STABILITY ANALYSIS
The four IP cores are embedded 32-bit and 256-bit water- marks, so the performance results are listed in Table 2, with W denoting the detection stability and X the area under the curve. Changes in detection stability are shown in Fig. 5, where larger values of X and W demonstrates the better performance of detection.
In Table 2, four benchmark circuits occupying different numbers of resources, to best evaluate the performance of the proposed detection algorithm. The performance is evalu- ated by embedding 32-bit and 256-bit watermark information respectively. When embedding a 32-bit watermark, both the stability and detection time increase significantly. Though, when the number of the watermark is 256 bit, the change of stability increases gently despite it decreases, but the detec- tion time still increases. Due to the increase of embedding watermarks, the LUT resources of the IP circuit and the detec- tion time are adjusted optimally in the detection procedure. Therefore, the adjustment makes false dismissal probability decrease to some degree may the number of embedding watermarks is large.
To evaluate the resource overhead and delay, the proposed algorithm is compared to the one proposed by Cui et al. [16]. The MD5 IP core is used as the benchmark, respectively rep- resenting embedded 100%, 75%, 50% and 25% watermark.

embedded in the design. If the number of embedded water- marks is larger, the probability of coincidence is smaller, demonstrating the higher credibility of the circuit.
B. TRANSPARENCY ANALYSIS
For the IP trading protection algorithm, transparency is the embedded copyright information and does not affect the standard functionality of the original design. This algorithm utilizes the logic configuration and inserts watermarks into unused resources in the original design. In the IP trading pro- cedure, the circuit will not activate the watermarked resources and change the normal function. Therefore, the transparency directly affects the security of the algorithm in Blockchain- based IP trading.
C. PERFORMANCE OVERHEAD ANALYSIS
Performance overhead is the extra resources and power after embedding the copyright information. The proposed algo- rithm utilizes the unused resources in the original design for watermark embedding. Therefore, the resource occupa- tion increase to some degree though less impact on per- formance overhead, since there are abundant programmable resources in FPGA. Besides, watermarks are embedded into the unused resource. When a core is running, the watermarked resources will not be activated, so it will not cause extra power overhead. Meanwhile, the watermark generation in the proposed algorithm transforms the copyright information into the reversible mapping factors by using the quadratic matrix

The relationship between detection probability and false alarm probability of four algorithms is shown in Fig. 5. With the increase of embedding rate, the detection prob- ability changes accordingly, the proposed algorithm tends to 1 rapidly though by comparing it to the algorithm by Qu et al, which demonstrates that the stability of the proposed algorithm is optimal with a high watermark embedding rate.
B. SECURITY ANALYSIS
1) ANALYSIS OF FALSE ALARM RATE
In this section, the false alarm rate of detection is used to eval- uate the security of the detection algorithm and can be calcu- lated by the formula (14). To achieve better security, the false alarm rate of detection is expected to tend to zero. The DES core is used in this section as a benchmark. The result is compared to the algorithm by Saha et al. as shown in Fig. 6. With the increase of the embedding rate, the false alarm rate of the proposed algorithm decreases sharply compared to

Saha et al., tending rapidly to zero. From this observation, it demonstrates that the proposed algorithm achieves a lower false alarm rate of detection than comparative algorithms, achieving better security of detection.


In IP circuit trading, the false alarm rate of detection is not directly related to the false alarm rate of embedding even though it has a particular relationship with the embedding method. Generally, the method with a higher embedding rate can easily detect watermarks. The quantified IP water- mark embedding method has a lower embedding rate than that of replacement or exchange based embedding method. As shown in Fig. 6, the number of embedded watermarks is 32-bit. When the embedding rate is 100%, the proposed algorithm has superiority in the false alarm rate of detection by comparing to the one proposed by Saha et al.
Table 3 lists the detection performance of three algorithms with different embedding rates. The proposed algorithm con- structs an overall scrambling algorithm that achieves lower calculation complexity and less calculation time than Z scrambling algorithm by Saha et al., requiring less detection time. Also, it is more suitable for real-time IP detection. Results in Table 3 show the superiority of the proposed algorithm in stability and detection performance.
2) RESISTANCE AGAINST MULTIPLE EMBEDDING ATTACKS
Multiple embedding attack is to add another forged copyright information into a watermarked IP design and declare forged ownership. It causes degradation of circuit performance, and the attack will confuse the authentication institution, however.
The IP trading scheme in this work mainly utilizes the value of SHA-1 hash function to realize the random trading query of the verification party. It can prevent illegal multiple embedding attackers from realizing information steganogra- phy. That is, the hash function is designed under a random assumption. If the verifier has the commitment value Z for the signature r, Z will not leak available information about r
under the condition of a discrete logarithm problem. In this work, the use of quadratic matrix transformation is intransi- tive for the authentication of IP watermark. The public key Y in the proof is combined with the identity information of the prover via the public key certificate since only the signer can construct a zero-knowledge proof. Also, it avoids the verifier distributing the signature M of the prover. In IP protection, the identity information of the verifier can be added. In this case, the proof of the prover is regarded as proof of the verifier and the only proof of authorized use of the verifier. Therefore, the proposed algorithm is secure under multiple embedding attacks.
VII. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
To address the issues of low security and traceability in traditional IP protection technologies, it is proposed in this work a traceable IP protection algorithm in the Blockchain environment. The quadratic matrix transformation model is emphasized during the design of this model based on a traceable IP protection algorithm, as the algorithm embeds a group of reversible self-recovery mapping factors in IP design that dramatically improves the robustness of copyright information and enhances the ability against replay attacks.
Based on the experimental results, the contributions of this work validated are as follows: (1) In Blockchain-based IP circuit trading, quadratic matrix transformation trans- forms the copyright information into a group of identification sequence, and (2) With the feature of distributed storage in blockchain, the traversal search algorithm randomly selects multiple identification information from the distributed LUT resources and generates the coordinates of IP copyright rapidly. As future directions, we will aim at researches on


Digital Art as ‘Monetised Graphics’: Enforcing Intellectual Property on the Blockchain


Abstract In a global economic landscape of hyper-commodification and financialisation, efforts to assimilate digital art into the high-stakes commercial art market have so far been rather unsuccessful, presumably because digital artworks cannot easily assume the status of precious object worthy of collection. This essay explores the use of blockchain technologies in attempts to create proprietary digital art markets in which uncommodifiable digital artworks are financialised as artificially scarce commodities. Using the decentralisation techniques and distributed database protocols underlying current cryptocurrency technologies, such efforts, exemplified here by the platform Monegraph, tend to be presented as concerns with the interest of digital artists and with shifting ontologies of the contemporary work of art. I challenge this characterisation, and argue, in a discussion that combines aesthetic theory, legal and philosophical theories of intellectual property, rhetorical analysis and research in the political economy of new media, that the formation of proprietary digital art markets by emerging commercial platforms such as Monegraph constitutes a worrisome amplification of long-established, on-going efforts to fence in creative expression as private property. As I argue, the combination of blockchain-based protocols with established ambitions of intellectual property policy yields hybrid conceptual-computational financial technologies (such as self-enforcing smart contracts attached to digital artefacts) that are unlikely to empower artists but which serve to financialise digital creative practices as a whole, curtailing the critical potential of the digital as an inherently dynamic and potentially uncommodifiable mode of production and artistic expression.

1 Introduction
A video essay by Enxuto and Love (2016), recently completed for the online digital art platform Rhizome.org, describes contemporary art as ‘a multi-billion dollar unregulated market with unclear criteria just waiting to be harnessed’ and imagines a supercomputer that controls art production, deploying it not for aesthetic pleasure or critical purposes but purely for maximised marketability and value (Cornell 2016). For now, this idea remains speculative fiction; but in a bullish art world where tens of billions in all available currencies are annually spent on hyper-commodified artworks, some of the filmmakers’ dystopian prediction regarding art-for-money’s-sake may already have become reality (see, for example, Boucher 2015; Forbes 2015). Only digital art—that is, ‘digital-born, computable art that is created, stored, and distributed via digital technologies and uses the features of these technologies as a medium’ (Paul 2016, p. 2)—appears so far to have largely formed an exception to trends of hyper-commodi- fication. Gallerists and collectors worry that because digital art primarily exists, by definition, in the form of intangible artefacts, it does not fit the mould of the high-stakes international art market, which continues to rely on unique, ownable objects. Since digital art does not generally yield artefacts that can be easily traded and owned in the conventional sense, it is feared that it cannot, therefore, be valued (or rather: valorised) appropriately. Copyright and other intellectual property tools are frequently employed to countervail this problem but with little success. This essay offers a critique of current attempts to resolve such issues by tying digital artworks to the blockchain, a public-yet- anonymous, distributed, digital ledger that can serve to verify and secure digital transactions. My discussion focuses on Monegraph, one of several initiatives promising the creation of ‘digital items that cannot be reproduced’ (Dash 2014). As detailed below, Monegraph uses decentralised, cryptographically secure database technology (i.e. the blockchain) to document the genesis, reproduction, dissemination, and trade of digital art objects. The promised result is that this will help to establish and stabilise the commercial value of the included works, to the benefit of artists. The platform’s developers have described their project as a playful experiment in creating the ‘monetised graphics’ referenced in the title of this essay. But as I will argue, their work goes beyond a laudable effort to help artists make money; it is indicative, rather, of a problematic ambition to financialise contemporary art practice, i.e. to instrumentalise the infrastructures and processes of digital art-making as a financial technology.k
Monegraph emerged as an online platform that links digital artefacts to unique blockchain hashes in 2014, when Anil Dash and Kevin McCoy were paired at the ‘Seven on Seven’ technology-and-art incubator hosted annually at the New Mu- seum by the NYC-based digital culture organisation Rhizome. Monegraph allows creators, owners, and collectors to document and verify the authenticity and provenance of the digital artefacts, so that, it is hoped, they can more efficiently secure the commercial value of the artworks in question. In its current form, Monegraph authenticates digital artworks using cryptographic blockchain hashes linked to the Bitcoin cryptocurrency system. Once generated, the verification hashes are accessible in the public blockchain ledger, here also called Monegraph’s ‘public catalogue.’ This database functions as a register through which title holders can offer their digital artworks for sale, share information about them or track their virtual movement. The digital licences attached to the

artefacts represent so-called smart contracts that may be set to enforce rules
1
lack of control over digital artefacts, IP assets cannot easily become the kinds of scarce commodities that we commonly associate with valuable artworks. As Dash has ob- served, ‘in a realm where novelty, rarity and exclusivity underpin so much of the (real or perceived) value of a work, copy and paste goes from being an act of creation to an act of destruction’ (2014). As a consequence, financial rewards digital artists can derive from their creative labour are generally not consistent with those available to artists
2
creation of a conceptual-computational financial technology hybrid, in which the blockchain serves as a kind of copyright enforcement tool aimed at bringing digital art under the purview of intellectual property policy, thus assimilating it into the
3
 attached to the artworks quasi-autonomously.
Dash and McCoy developed their project based on the assumption that due to the
working in non-digital formats.
In what follows, I discuss the features of Monegraph as pointing towards the
This development is symp- tomatic of broader sociological tendencies of neoliberalism, financialisation, and cog- nitive capitalism that saturate our lifeworlds ever more thoroughly; indeed, it appears to form an extension of these trends. My essay is not an attack on efforts to help artists protect their creators’ rights. What I highlight, rather, is that digital art is becoming a site of intense contestation as embattled target of commodification and financialisation efforts. Simultaneously, digital art emerges as an important zone of resistance where artists and creative communities have an opportunity to help shape blockchain tech- nologies in ways that challenge conventional perspectives on private property and the
existing property-based circuits of the global art market.
enclosure of cultural commons, rather than feeding into them.
When media artist Rafaël Rozendaal sold the Internet-based artwork ifnoyes.com at
the Phillips contemporary art and design auction house in 2013 (Rozendaal 2013), the transaction highlighted issues of asserting authorship and ownership claims of digital artworks, drawing attention to on-going debates regarding the difficulty of pinning commercial value on dematerialised digital artworks (see, for example, Siner 2013). Rozendaal’s work raises questions that are highly relevant to the discussion of digital art more generally: Can artworks that only exist publicly (such as websites) be subject to private property claims, and if so, what do such claims mean and how can they be enforced? What are the contours of a digital work whose underlying source code can be easily copied and changed, and what implications might modifications of the source code have for the work’s authenticity and value? How does the concept of ownership function in relation to intangible artefacts such as digital artworks, and how can the commercial value of such works be fixed? Ifnoyes.com engaged these questions playfully, but they become serious concerns if one wishes to consider digital art as

valuable property and viable investment. This is precisely the ambition of Monegraph.
Tying digital artworks to the blockchain, which also forms the backbone of so-called
45 cryptocurrenciessuchasBitcoin, meanstogivethemvirtuallyunforgeableidentities
and to turn them into artificially unique, tradeable units potentially bearing commercial value, which can now be recorded, documented and monitored on a distributed, public, anonymous ledger. This, it is hoped, may help integrate digital art overall with existing art markets. Such efforts are sometimes portrayed as ontological investigations of the digital, undertaken to allow artists to recuperate agency and control over their creative expressions: the developers of Monegraph, for example, have stated that their initiative aims at empowering digital artists who may so far not have been able to affirm fair recognition and values for their artworks (e.g. Dash 2014, Sacks et al. 2015).
‘The digital’ is itself an elusive and amorphous concept, subject to intense debate in all areas of critical inquiry. For the purposes of my discussion, which connects the digital and financial technologies to aesthetics, law, and economics, the following two definitions provide a useful point of departure: Firstly, ‘digital objects appear to human users as colourful and visible beings. At the level of programming they are text files; further down the operating system they are binary codes; finally, at the level of circuit boards they are nothing but signals generated by the values of voltage and the operation of logic gates’ (Hui 2012, p. 387). Secondly, these ‘constitutional texture[s] of digital technologies’ have the effect that digital artefacts are generally ‘editable, interactive, open and reprogrammable, and distributed’, characteristics that heavily influence social practices regarding our interactions with the digital (Kallinikos et al. 2010). What these definitions share is the premise that the digital is almost always easy to reproduce and share, suggesting, again, that immaterial, digital-born artworks cannot easily attain the status of the unique, desirable collector’s items that continue to inform the standards by which the commercial art world measures value in both its aesthetic and commercial connotations. Notwithstanding the example of Rozendaal’s ifnoyes.com, it continues to be difficult to buy (let alone sell) artworks that were created, that must be distributed, and that can only be stored in digital form.
Over the past decades, intellectual property (IP) policy has emerged as a preferred tool for trying to stabilise the value of digital artefacts by regulating their reproduction and dissemination legally (Samuelson and Davis 2000; Lucchi 2005). As discussed in Section 3 of this essay, justifications for the use (and expansion) of intellectual property policy as regulatory tools commonly rely on narratives that highlight the value of creative labour, harking back to the rhetoric of individual genius as deserving of acknowledgement and reward. ‘Reward’ here tends to be understood as an exclusive right to exploit the fruits of creative labour commercially, which in turn justifies the assumption that creative expressions (such as artworks) should be subject to private property claims. In promoting this view, some legal scholars argue that private owner- ship is desirable both as a means and an end in the struggle to acknowledge, protect, reward, and incentivise creative activities (even while admitting that private ownership ‘appears at times the opposite of a public-spirited institution, and seems even in some ways selfish’; see Merges 2011, p. 311). An opposing camp of legal scholars argues that the traditional concept of property may be generally unsuitable for creative works

bound in intangible expressions (e.g. Lessig 2004; Moore and Himma 2011). Based on this perspective, critical cultural studies of law scholarship generally maintain that copyright and other IP tools serve the logic of capitalist economies, rather than benefiting individual creators (see, for example, Coombe 1998 and Boyle 2008).
While the use of expansive IP policy to regulate intangible works is pervasive in
jurisdictions around the globe, digital art—along with other digital artefacts that are 6
inherently copyable, reproducible, and non-rivalrous —has proven resistant to enclo- sures of cultural commons through the enforcement strategies of intellectual property regimes. Initiatives such as Monegraph promise that blockchain technologies may change that. What follows below forms a critique of this promise, by way of an analysis that incorporates financial technologies (specifically distributed database pro- tocols), aesthetics (in the discussion of representative digital artworks), philosophy of law (in particular perspectives invoked to justify intellectual property), and political economy (theories related to financialisation, immaterial labour, and enclosures of the public domain). Ultimately, my argument is that the hybridising of the blockchain and IP policy into a high-efficiency financial technology useful for regulating digital art markets will not help revolutionise the institutionalised art world to the benefit of digital artists. Rather, such developments represent a worrisome acceleration and intensification of long-standing efforts to fence in creative expression as private property.
After introducing the technologies underlying Monegraph in Section 2, I will show, in the subsequent section, that the implementation of blockchain technologies to regulate digital art markets is framed by a rhetoric familiar from the history of ever- expanding IP regimes, commonly employed to veil economic agenda inherent in intellectual property policy. An additional argument is then brought into play, which will be picked up again in Section 4: since digital artworks generally do not exist as unique, scarce, or rivalrous artefacts that fit within the traditional property-based circuits of the art market, it may be the nature of the digital itself that stands in the way of turning digital art into a stable financial instrument. Philosophical and media theory-specific debates around shifting ontology of the digital will here provide important links to my concern with financial technologies and contemporary art. Overall, this discussion leads me to argue, throughout this essay, that it would be misleading to construe the use of blockchain technologies for controlling digital art markets simply as an effort to improve intellectual property rights. When blockchain technologies are deployed as a kind of computational copyright intervention, they serve not merely to facilitate the commodification of digital art objects. Rather, such devel- opments, which likely involve the use of self-enforcing smart contracts, i.e. blockchain- based software protocols that autonomously verify or enforce contractual agreements tied to the use of digital artefacts (Buterin 2014), will serve to financialise the wider contexts within which digital art is created and disseminated.
At the ever-shifting fault line between art and money, financialisation forms the last of three broader interactions (see Taylor 2011, pp. 3–15): First, the ‘commodification of art’ leads artists to produce precious objects whose value is measured by their exchange

2 Digital Art on the Blockchain: Technological Background
When blockchain-based cryptocurrencies made their initial appearance after the 2008 financial crisis, in the pseudonymously published white paper that is now considered the foundational document of Bitcoin (Nakamoto 2008), they were seen as a potentially revolutionary technology with the power to disrupt the centralised banking systems that had been responsible for the financial collapse. The contemporary art world took note as well, commenting, for example, that the technology gave rise to ‘divergent specu- lations about the future of politics and finance outside of direct state control, from self- governing utopias to sublime dystopias’ (New Museum 2015). For the most part, this type of commentary hinted at the assumption that Bitcoin and blockchain technologies may somehow help digital artists with enforcing their creators’ rights in ways that legal and economic policy have been unable to. An assumption underlying this perspective is that artists rely on (and are primarily motivated by) the ability to control the existence and circulation of their creative expressions as scarce, valuable art objects. This has


2 Digital Art on the Blockchain: Technological Background
When blockchain-based cryptocurrencies made their initial appearance after the 2008 financial crisis, in the pseudonymously published white paper that is now considered the foundational document of Bitcoin (Nakamoto 2008), they were seen as a potentially revolutionary technology with the power to disrupt the centralised banking systems that had been responsible for the financial collapse. The contemporary art world took note as well, commenting, for example, that the technology gave rise to ‘divergent specu- lations about the future of politics and finance outside of direct state control, from self- governing utopias to sublime dystopias’ (New Museum 2015). For the most part, this type of commentary hinted at the assumption that Bitcoin and blockchain technologies may somehow help digital artists with enforcing their creators’ rights in ways that legal and economic policy have been unable to. An assumption underlying this perspective is that artists rely on (and are primarily motivated by) the ability to control the existence and circulation of their creative expressions as scarce, valuable art objects. This has
herself to be able to emulate (and critique) contemporary corporate business models. And thirdly, the adoption of contemporary investment strategies both by artists and by collectors represents the financialisation of art, as evident for example in the work of Damien Hirst (one of the highest-grossing living artists). Here, the nature of artworks fundamentally changes from commodities to financial assets and detaches investors from the abstract subjects of their financial speculation, just as it alienates artist from the creative labour tied to their production processes, which is itself streamlined towards abstract value transaction schemes. The implementation of blockchain tech- nologies for managing transactions in digital art is an example par excellence—indeed an amplification—of this process. The financialisation of art follows a more general tendency towards the financialisation of capitalism, defined most succinctly as ‘the shift in gravity of economic activity from production ... to finance’ (Bellamy 2007). When the medium in which an artwork is inscribed, valorised, traded, archived, and even displayed has itself become a financial technology, then this shift could certainly be argued to have reached at least a temporary apex.
Digital art practices, then, are themselves currently in the process of becoming financial technologies when they are tied to the blockchain. Platforms such as Monegraph drive this development, and by contrasting it with recent examples of artworks that critically engage with this prospect, I will conclude by highlighting the importance of supporting practices that engage the blockchain critically, interrogating its social, political, and aesthetic implications. Digital art may thus continue to resist being instrumentalised as part of a multi-faceted, highly efficient, conceptual- computational financial technology which, in its current form, serves to control and re-centralise production, dissemination, and financialisation processes.

and in the work of artists such as Jennifer Lyn Morone, who incorporated
 value. Second, the ‘corporatisation of art’ becomes evident both in corporations’ increasing reliance on cultural capital derived from the ownership and display of art 

always been at the core of arguments in favour of expansive intellectual property regulation; now, arguments in favour of linking digital art to blockchain-based tech- nologies are for the most part returning to the same perspective. This section details the technologies underlying blockchain-based systems, to set up my subsequent discussion of their emerging connections to established, conservative perspectives on IP.
Adding digital artworks to the blockchain means to record their existence along with
details regarding their provenance, value, exhibition history, etc., in a public, real-time
synchronised database that is extremely difficult to forge. Platforms such as Monegraph
hope that in this way, digital artworks that were once considered uncollectable due to
the inherent immateriality of the digital substrate within which they are bound may
undergo an ontological transformation from infinitely reproducible intangible artefacts
to ones that are artificially scarce and therefore, potentially, valuable. When IP policy
has previously been called upon to facilitate the financial exploitation of creative
expressions, this has generally occurred through the granting of exclusive rights over
the managing of the artworks’ reproduction. Given the easy mechanical, technological,
and digital reproducibility of many creative expressions (such as printed materials,
photographic images, recorded sounds, moving images, and, of course, digital files), IP
law emerged as a legal measure designed to prevent the wildfire-like spreading of
unauthorised copying and reproduction that seemed to erode the commercial value of
8
culture. However,anyquickonlinesearchwillrevealthatIPlawhasneverbeenable
to catch up with technology and is not an overly effective tool for protecting the interests of intellectual property owners. Monegraph’s proposition is to remedy this problem by using blockchain entries as unique, publicly distributed identifiers to stabilise the identity of digital artworks. As I argue, this inscription of blockchain technology with economically motivated principles of intellectual property represents the emergence of a hybridised conceptual-computational financial technology.
In theory, the Bitcoin protocol, the blockchain, and similar technologies decentralise transactions in order to make them independent of institutional structures such as banks. Early purveyors of Bitcoin envisioned that this could free participants in financial exchanges from having to rely on corruptible institutional agents as mediators (Nakamoto 2008). This would allow financial instruments to approximate a more unmediated, pure form of Simmel’s vision of money as a ‘social technology’ that might function most smoothly when transactions are treated as mathematical problems
9
(Simmel2004;seealsoDodd2015). Inconventionalmonetarytransactions,conduct-
ed in fiat currency and facilitated by agents who answer to a bank or brokerage firm, participants have to place trust both in the mediating institutions and in the socio-


economic, political, and legal stability of the system that vouches for the currency’s integrity. In transactions carried out along the blockchain, the financial technology itself becomes both the medium through which the transaction participants interface and the system’s safeguarding mechanism. In other words, when dealing with a bank, we have to trust the institution; when dealing in cryptocurrency units, presumably we have to trust no one but the technology itself. In theory, the integrity of the carrier system is here not ideologically but cryptographically determined. However, numerous scholars have by now challenged this assumption, for example by showing the social, political, and material embeddedness of blockchain-based financial instruments (see Scott 2014 and Karlstrøm 2014).
To demonstrate the attractiveness of blockchain systems for purposes of regulating digital art markets, it is advantageous to temporarily bracket concerns with the technology’s embeddedness (I will return to them in the concluding section of this essay). If, for the moment, we accept cryptocurrencies’ promise of offering crypto- graphic security and truly trustless transactions, it becomes clear that in providing both the containers of value and the medium (i.e. infrastructure) for financial transactions, cryptocurrencies might represent a phenomenological paradigm shift: how we are experiencing and sensing finance and how it registers on an affective and moral spectrum changes radically when financial transactions turn from inherently social to inherently computational phenomena. After such a shift, traditional, human-contingent mechanisms of regulation and oversight, notoriously subject to corruption, would no longer be required. The downside is that in such a system, sentience and intellectual agency are no longer available to reify finance and to help us experience its moral complexities. It has been rightly noted that within ‘the Bitcoin system, a set of powerful central intermediaries (the cartel of commercial banks, connected together via the central bank, underwritten by government), gets replaced with a more diffuse network intermediary, apparently controlled by no-one in particular’ (Scott 2014). It remains to be seen whether the end of human and institutional intermediaries in transactional relationships can be a good thing. Techno-utopian cryptocurrency supporters generally overlook (or ignore) the sociological dimensions of financial systems, which are never truly autonomous and always ‘operate in a political context’ (Carruthers and Kim 2011, p. 244).
For the purpose of my discussion, two aspects of the blockchain must be highlighted in particular: first, how the computational transaction infrastructure can be linked to current IP policy; and secondly, how the crucially important ‘proof-of-work’ concept that drives most cryptocurrency protocols relates to philosophical perspectives on IP. The blockchain is in essence a publicly accessible electronic database whose content is protected from corruption by a cryptographic system that is exceedingly difficult to break. Because of the system’s complexity, it is frequently assumed that financial technologies built on the blockchain are ‘unforgeable’ and that distributed database technologies thus afford truly trustless transactions. This is not technically correct and requires qualification. On the one hand, software flaws can allow for the corruption of transaction logs and authentic currency units; on the other hand, sociological dimen- sions of the trust issue must also be kept in mind—good examples include the development of ‘permissioned blockchains’ (BitFury Group 2015), which allow for a certain degree of manipulation from system administrators, as well as recent debate about so-called 51 % attacks, in which a party that controls the majority of transaction

hashes can, theoretically, manipulate transaction records retroactively (see Bitcoin Glossary n.d.).
The information stored on the blockchain is distributed across a multitude of co- existing instantiations, each of which is computationally verified every time new entries are added. This constant synchronisation between co-existing copies of the information stored on the blockchain naturally requires for the data to be accessible to all partici- pants. This transparency, which renders the blockchain a fully public ledger, is a key safekeeping mechanism. The security of the system is rounded off by encrypting the entered information in blockchain hashes, complex numerical code blocks whose shape is determined by all transactions that came before it. These hashes constitute complex algorithmic chains of code that document their own veracity. The operations required to generate the hashes are verified by independent nodes in a distributed network and are based on calculations that are easy to validate but difficult to solve. The computational labour required for these verification processes is called the ‘proof-of-work’ and also refers to the ‘mining’ of cryptocurrency units (an activity that is, in most protocols, rewarded with units in the relevant currency). The proof-of-work system is thus a security implementation in which the integrity of data is tied to expended computer processing time (i.e. ‘work’). The unique identifiers bound in blockchain hashes serve the purpose of verifying the ledger in its entirety, ‘holding in it a digital record of every transaction that has taken place along the chain before it’ (DeForrest et al. 2015). As a consequence of this stacking of information, cryptocurrency units generally become more difficult to verify as the system matures, requiring significantly more computa- tional labour and, presumable, rising in value. I will return to this concept in the next section, to consider whether it runs counter to Lockean labour theory and Hegelian personality theory, two philosophical tenets frequently invoked to justify intellectual property. Specifically, I will suggest that here, discussion of creative labour and authorship shifts away from creators and towards those in control of the computational labour on which the system relies. Ultimately, this foregrounding of computational labour might imbue the digital artefacts in question with a new kind of quasi- autonomous agency that also resonates with the operational logic of self-enforcing algorithmic smart contracts, rather than with the protection of creators’ rights.
Perhaps the most important aspect to take away from this rudimentary description of cryptocurrency systems is that they can be used to securely document not only financial activities but any type of transaction. The complexity of the hashes allows for a considerable amount of information to be encoded within them, which can include full documentation of a digital artefact’s provenance, circulation, and ownership history. As will have become clear from my introductory discussion, and as I will go on to describe in more detail below, it is this last aspect that makes blockchain technology particularly attractive for the creators of digital art markets. The developers of Monegraph, for example, have repeatedly highlighted the ability to inscribe presumably unforgeable information about artwork in blockchain entries (e.g. Dash 2014).
To exemplify how this might work, imagine a digital image, such as a GIF, which is easy to download, copy, modify, and recirculate. Once furnished with a unique, public blockchain hash detailing its provenance and identity, an authorised copy of the image could be identified as the ‘original.’ All copies, including those marked as inauthentic by their lack of the original identifier, could be allowed to continue circulating, as they would now serve to attest to the popularity and thus, potentially, the value, of the

Historically, it has been envisioned as a tool that would legally circumscribe limits and restrictions on how artworks could be reproduced and circulated and provide artists with control over these aspects. But since its emergence alongside the budding book publishing industry, copyright policy has never, and nowhere, been able to effectively enforce this desired control over the reproduction of creative expressions, because it has been unable (albeit not for a lack of trying) to stem the tide of expressions bound in easily copyable media
graphic, architectural, audio-visual, musical, and code-based works.
Zeilinger M.
 original.10 Technically, our understanding of the image’s ‘authenticity’ would no longer be bound to any particular copy of it but rather to a distributed blockchain hash that accurately and irreversibly documents the GIF’s origin, ownership history, etc. Con- ceptually, the authenticity of the image would no longer be inscribed in a scarce ‘original’ and linked to the creator of this artefact but rather in its distinctiveness as verified by the blockchain hash. This would form a significant departure from current cultural and legal perspectives on the original and the authentic, which generally require demonstrable originality, an identifiable authorial figure, and fixation in a distinct medium.
Following the procedure outlined above, the requirements for recognition of origi- nality and authenticity currently dominating the legal, economic, and aesthetic systems with which we codify ‘value’ could thus be satisfied in immaterial contexts. As an immaterial-yet-commodifiable art object, the value of the GIF would no longer rely on anyone’s ability to restrict its proliferation or circulation (as suggested in the following section, this is precisely what IP policy has failed to achieve). In fact, the image’s value can now be linked not to its scarceness but, instead, to its ubiquity. Connections to concepts with which digital art has previously had very unstable relationships could potentially be reinstated, including authorship, attribution, ownership, licencing rights, leases and rentals, and transfers of ownership. As I argue below, this is precisely the strategy followed by Monegraph and is reflected in the rhetoric with which the platform explains its approach.
3 The Blockchain as a Matter of Intellectual Property: Monegraph
Legal, economic, and technology-focused debates on how to control value bound in easily reproducible digital artefacts frequently culminate in perspectives for or against copyright protection of artistic works. Today, copyright is characterised by an expan- sive focus that encompasses text-based, painterly, sculptural, photographic, choreo-
11
forms (see, e.g. Rose 1995, Lessig 2004, May and Sell 2006).
I have already alluded to the assumption that immaterial art objects, if their
reproduction and circulation cannot be efficiently controlled, may not be seen as valuable investments by gallerists and art collectors. By promising to stabilise the digital artefact itself, blockchain-based technologies seem to offer a fix for this issue, which has been described as contemporary digital art’s most pressing problem. One of Monegraph’s co-founders has summarised this perfectly by describing ‘the

effortlessness with which any given work can be instantly, and perfectly, copied’ as ‘the most fundamental cause of concern’ in the field of digital art (Dash 2014). Monegraph’s vision is thus that the blockchain might reshape the digital into something that can be properly accepted as unique artworks in conventional terms. This desire to ‘stabilise’ the digital is clearly linked to a concern with the economics of contemporary art, rather than purely to a concern with the ontology of the artwork. The developers of blockchain-based digital art market regulation efforts like to invoke aesthetic theory
12
and utopian political projects in discussing their work , but projects such as
Monegraph ultimately point more traditional, capitalist agenda of IP regulation.
Overall, attempts to tie digital art to the blockchain and to IP theory resemble a well-
established tradition of seeking to legitimise the propertisation of creative expression.
Partly because the concept of authorship often appears as an ‘uncritically accepted notion’
(Jaszi 1991, p. 466), it has been frequently invoked, over the centuries, for the purpose of
controlling access and reproduction of creative expressions—commonly in the name of
the author/artist but generally on behalf of publishers or other rights holders. The initial
phase in the conceptual history of copyright doctrine concluded once the notion of the
abstract ‘work’ was established and could aid in the ‘legal objectification of the fruits of
creative labour’, thereby setting the ‘necessary conditions for a market in [creative
expressions] as commodities’ (479). Thus, the rhetoric of legitimising intellectual property
doctrine commonly focuses on the protection of creators’ interests and ensuring rewards

It is generally accepted that IP policy strives to establish, fix, and facilitate the commercial exploitation of a protected work’s value. But the non-scarce and non- rivalrous nature of easily replicable informational artefacts constitutes a serious prob- lem for this model and means that the idea of IP is becoming difficult both to justify and to enforce. Efforts to resolve this difficulty through the use blockchain technologies constitute shifts from IP-as-monetary-instrument to IP-as-financial-technology. This falls in line with the differences between commodification and financialisation, pro- vided in the introduction, and is evident in all areas in which IP rights protection and policy enforcement responsibilities are shifted to algorithmic digital rights management
(DRM) technologies as well as, more recently, self-enforcing smart contracts.
3.1 Deolontological and Consequentialist Justifications of IP
Beginning with early copyright regulation such as the British Statute of Anne (1710), the law has been continuously instrumentalised for commercial exploitation of IP assets. These instrumentalisation efforts foreground creators as the primary subjects and beneficiaries of IP law, even though it is generally an elite community of
that intellectual property discourse desires not only to protect creators’ rights but also to treat commodified creative expressions as financial instruments that streamline the commercial
commercial stakeholders who capitalise on the creativity of those they represent (such as publishers owning the work of authors, music labels owning the work of musicians, film studios owning the work of screenwriters, etc.). Many literary historians, legal scholars, and cultural theorists agree that the legal and aesthetic concepts of ‘author- ship’ to which present-day notions of cultural ownership link are deployed as a Romantic fiction that conveys untenable ideals of original genius (see, for example, Drahos 1996, Craig 2007, and Jaszi 2011). The aesthetic concepts of the ‘work’ and of ‘originality,’ on which copyright law and most philosophies of intellectual property heavily rely, may be well aligned with the commercial interests of rights holders—but they exist in contradiction to the fundamentally dynamic and open-ended nature of creative expression. Copying and other reproductive techniques against which IP policy turns were ‘always already a crucial aspect of our ability to articulate ourselves’ (Boon 2014, p. 59).
To demonstrate these points, a brief survey of the philosophical underpinnings of intellectual property discourse is useful here. Arguments in favour of intellectual property rights commonly emerge from one of three philosophical perspectives: a perspective modelled on Lockean labour theory of appropriation, which asserts that we gain legitimate ownership claims over intellectual property assets by ‘mixing’ our labour and effort with the works to be protected; a Hegelian perspective that views intellectual property as an extension of individual personhood and self-ownership and which justifies the subjection of creative expressions to ownership claims by insisting that IP assets externalise aspects of our selves that should rightfully be in our possession; and lastly a utilitarian perspective that legitimises intellectual property by foregrounding its positive impact on economic and social progress and which favours incentive-based

The first two perspectives are deonto- logical and posit intellectual property rights as natural rights; the third is consequentialist and justifies the propertisation of creative expressions by reference to desirable effects that are assumed to result from the protection of IP rights. I will briefly comment on each of these perspectives in turn, focusing, for brevity, on aspects relevant to the present

System to protection IP rights.

continues to inform copyright policy; based on Locke’s labour theory of appropriation, it is easy to claim that creators are entitled to control their creations and to benefit from them commercially as a natural right. However, Lockean justifications of intellectual property have not gone unchallenged. Perhaps most notably, P.J. Proudhon, prior to his correspondence with Marx on related subjects, has questioned whether Locke’s rather simple definition of labour is differentiated enough (1840); more recently, critiques have often focused on whether expended creative labour should automatically yield property rights at all and on how extensive such rights can or should legitimately be (see Moore and Himma 2014).
Hegelian personality theory (1821) complicates this view but can also be invoked to support it. This perspective assumes that the institution of property allows for an individual’s personality to be actualised externally and that property, as a prerequisite for the formation of personality, is, indeed, the embodiment of individual freedom (Hegel 1952: 42). In other words, our independence will take shape and express itself through our right to own. Importantly, this assumption is not limited to conventional ownership of material objects but extends to ‘inner possessions’ and to the intangible artefacts that may constitute intellectual property (see Drahos 1996, pp. 75–78). Following Hegel’s approach, ‘without a sphere of property over which we exercise control’ the development of personality (and its corollary, moral responsibility) is considered to be unlikely (Palmer 2005, p. 125). Perspectives on IP that are based on Hegelian personality theory thus often appeal to moral considerations, for example regarding an artist’s reputation and community standing. Consequently, this perspective is also tied to debates regarding the ‘moral rights’ of artists, an important aspect of copyright legislation in some jurisdictions.16 In combination, the Lockean and Hegelian approach thus appear to offer a solid foundation for the argument that ownership of and control in IP assets should, as a matter of principle, rest with the artists (who are also
17
focuses on incentives and assumes that creators will be motivated to continue produc- ing IP assets only if their activities are rewarded and well regulated. This perspective, sometimes linked to Hardin’s concept of the ‘tragedy of the commons’ (see Hardin 1968; Ghosh 2007), assumes that without regulation and the promise of reward, there is little or no motivation to engage in creative activities. The utilitarian perspective focuses on foregrounding societal benefits (progress, cohesion, etc.) that are assumed to result
free, of course, to divest themselves of these properties).
The last of the three justificatory models discussed here, the utilitarian perspective,
18
rary IP policy are primarily economic in nature and are linked to exclusive, terminal

IP rights.

This third justificatory model frequently appears as a hybrid approach and incorporates Lockean and Hegelian arguments that can be conveniently folded into a utilitarian perspective focused on economic benefit. While this justificatory model is most fully aligned with the capitalist logic of economic models favouring private property, this alignment can appear veiled, such as in the UN Declaration of Human Rights assertion that ‘everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary, or artistic
20
imposed on the protected expressions.
Zeilinger M.
 rights to control the reproduction and commercial exploitation of creative expressions. It must also be noted that the exclusive creators’ rights provided as incentives are experienced by everyone else (audiences, listeners, readers, etc.) as access restrictions
19
production of which he is the author’ (UDHR 27.2).
The combination (or conflation) of ‘moral and material interests’ in this statement
points to a lack of clarity regarding how to define and measure the value of creative labour, an issue by which Monegraph’s approach is also characterised. The combined invocation of deontological and consequentialist perspectives, discussed below in more detail, muddles the contours of each and makes it difficult to consider, for example, whether the foregrounding of financial reward undermines artistic value or whether the value of creative labour is directly linked to the commercial value of that which is created. Issues of immaterial labour thus emerge as crucially important to discussions of Monegraph. The platform and the rhetoric through which it is promoted blur the boundaries between immaterial (human) labour and computational labour and seem to propose that the latter (in the form of algorithmic proof-of-work verification pro- cesses) can serve to protect the former. What remains unaccounted for in this constel- lation is the basic (but, again, crucial) question of who owns this labour and the modes of production that frame it. If blockchain-based digital art market platforms were truly to serve artists, artists would have to be able to retain substantial control in this scenario. This, however, is not in the nature of the decentralised database solutions and smart contract applications under discussion here.


3.2 Monegraph: Between IP Rhetorics and Smart Contract Logic
Monegraph’s developers draw upon a mix of deontological and consequentialist IP justifications to explain the platform’s aims. A closer look at this rhetoric reveals the deontological justifications to be conceptually at odds with blockchain technologies, while the third, consequentialist model once more highlights the economic interests underlying propertisation efforts. Overall, this puts into doubt the assumption that Monegraph will, by design, protect creators’ interests. Rhizome and the New Museum have positioned Monegraph as a hybrid of exploratory art project, aesthetic theory, and commercial product. Its founders describe the platform not as a radically new technol- ogy but as a new solution to the old problem of how to efficiently capture the value bound in IP assets. Among the inspirations for the project were financial analyst Larry Smith’s provocation to ‘imagine digital items that can’t be reproduced’ (Ford 2014), as


well as the difficulties the digital artist Rafaël Rozendaal encountered when, as discussed above, he sold the website ifnoyes.com as a unique artwork.
Copyability of intellectual property assets has been described as an existential problem for artists for decades, if not centuries. In addition to intellectual property policy, proposed solutions for this issue have often relied on technological interference with copying processes and have included attempts to create unforgeable printing plates, embeddable watermarks, region-specific codecs designed to resist interconti- nental piracy (Elkin-Koren 2011), algorithmic copy protection, and, most recently, self- enforcing smart contracts by way of which digital assets might, for example, automat- ically collect licencing fees when reproduced or auto-destruct if illegitimate copying is detected. Early forms of DRM systems that automatically enforce ownership claims and creators’ rights by preventing, for example, copying, downloading, or streaming activities, such as we find them on CDs and DVDs, have thus been superseded by more insidious solutions, in the form of autonomous algorithmic tools that monitor and control access, reproduction, etc. (A notorious example of such a tool was an eBook licence introduced by HarperCollins, which caused eBooks held by lending libraries to self-destruct after they had been accessed by a certain number of users, forcing the
21
technologies commonly enforce the most narrow view on the rights they protect; they
thus tend to treat all users indiscriminately as potential violators of copyrights. As a
result of this hardwired bias, many legitimate copying activities that would be protected
by copyright law’s fair use of fair dealing exemptions can become impossible
22
).
Such technologies are designed to stand in for copyright law. Problematically, DRM
libraries to repurchase the digital books.
In other words, algorithmic protection technologies are prone to detecting IP rights violations in instances where a sentient interpreter of the law might have identified a legitimate use. Such issues take on a more serious nature with emerging smart contract technologies, since here the monitoring of digital artefact use and the enforcing of hard-coded rules can be completely decoupled from human interference, regardless of whether they correspond meaningfully to the contractual agreements they are designed to enforce. The law is, at least in theory, dynamic and able to accommodate newly emerging uses and customs. By design, this is not necessarily true for smart contracts, which can serve to control digital artefacts much more rigidly.
(Armstrong 2006).
Design and implementation of smart contracts—systems that automatically manip- ulate digital assets ‘according to arbitrary pre-specified rules’ (Buterin 2014, p. 1)—has been under discussion at least since the early 1980s, initially with a focus on privacy issues and the potential of untraceability in online transactions (Chaum 1982). Then, the decoupling of smart contract design from financial purposes was proposed (e.g., Szabo 1998), and the general debate of the ends to which smart contracts could be put began to be linked more centrally to crypto-anarchy (and, by extension, Icrypto-libertarian) ideals of digital individual freedom that had been outlined a decade prior (May 1988). Current state-of-the-art smart developments include platforms such as Ethereum, a decentralised computing platform that promises to run smart contracts ‘exactly as programmed without any possibility of downtime, censorship, fraud or third

party interference’, for purposes including, but not limited to ‘decentralised exchange, financial derivatives, peer-to-peer gambling, and on-blockchain identity and reputation systems’ (Buterin 2014, p. 1).
The use of smart contracts thus allows initiatives such as Monegraph to offer a radically new approach to digital art’s presumed non-scarcity problem. Rather than controlling the circulation of digital artefacts by making them impossible to copy, Monegraph, as outlined above, makes it possible to verify a specific copy of the digital artefact in question as authentic, thereby positioning it as verifiably ownable, poten- tially valuable artefact. The platform’s ‘public catalogue’ can highlight the popularity of trackable digital artefacts; instead of pursuing the ambition of interfering with the reproduction and circulation of digital artefacts, the platform foregrounds reproduction and dissemination as mechanisms that produce, rather than destroy, value. In this model, registered digital artefacts can continue to circulate across networked computer systems, while Monegraph serves to document and monitor provenance, ownership, or permissions to exhibit.
A key problem with the assumption that Monegraph uses blockchain technology ‘to bring meatspace scarcity to online art’ as one commentator observed (Constine 2014) is that this assumption conflates actually scarce artefacts with the creation of virtually scarce digital objects. The non-rivalrousness of informational artefacts, a concept already alluded to, is not a trait that can be easily overcome. While Monegraph suggests that blockchain-based artificial scarcity can render digital creations as reified works of art, we must keep in mind that the commercial value that may attach itself to artificially scarce digital objects is the only measurable indication that the artefacts in question are any less abstract than before. Far from representing a process of reification, the tying of digital artworks to the blockchain serves mostly to underpin the efficiency of com- modification and financialisation efforts. In other words, rather than observing that Monegraph reconceptualises the commodity type in question (the digital artwork as financial instrument) in order to make it fit better with traditional systems of capitalist exchange, it might actually be more accurate to state that the platform reconceptualises the technological underpinnings of the infrastructure within which digital artworks are being produced and circulated. In tandem, the technological paradigm underlying the blockchain and the legal and philosophical paradigms underlying intellectual property form a technology that facilitates the financialisation of digital art.
Lack of clarity regarding the conceptual motivations behind Monegraph informs much of the attention that the project has received. In DIS Magazine’s ‘Data Issue,’ for example, the founders of Monegraph were asked, ‘...is it not somewhat absurd to uncritically reproduce the conditions of physical objects rather than attempting to imagine new logics of thingness, ownership, exchange, etc. more faithful to the affordances of the medium?’ (Sacks et al. 2015). But, significantly, Monegraph does not reproduce the conditions of physical objects (specifically their uniqueness and scarcity); instead, it simulates the effects of these conditions. In doing so, Monegraph does indeed implement a ‘new logic of thingness,’ namely one in which hard-coded rules that define digital modes of being control the artefacts’ behaviour in relation to rules and regulations on which their commercial value hinges. McCoy himself has argued that the blockchain ledger affords a ‘contradictory possibility of ubiquity and scarcity at the same time’ (ibid.). This double existence of digital objects as scarce-yet- not-unique does not rely on a fundamental technological innovation but indicates an

important conceptual shift in approaching commodification efforts. This points pre- cisely to the difference between earlier (failed) efforts to use the notion of IP to create artworks as stable financial assets and current efforts to implement the blockchain as an IP-backing financial technology.
If Monegraph was initially presented as a tongue-in-cheek comment on the futility of trying to undermine the uncommodifiability of digital art (as noted, the platform’s name stands for ‘monetised graphics’), the project has now clearly moved beyond this conceit. The project website lists a variety of electronic licences that can be generated for individual digital artefacts, which are then embedded in unique blockchain hashes associated with the artefacts in question. The ‘most liberal’ (Monegraph 2015b) of these licences, called the Snapshot licence, ‘is a commercial agreement that gives virtually all rights over to the buyer’ (ibid.), which ‘allows [the] Licensee to exclusively use the Digital Work in connection with an unlimited number of projects, with the only limitation that [the] Licensee may not create any derivative works based on the Digital Work if Remix Rights have not been assigned’ (Monegraph 2015a). By contrast, the ‘most restrictive’ (Monegraph 2015b) licence is the Artwork licence, which ‘is for non- commercial use and personal enjoyment’ (Monegraph 2015a) and ‘allows [the] Li- censee to exclusively display a registered Digital Work on any device owned by [the] Licensee and in non-commercial public exhibitions’, including reproduction for non- commercial purposes (Monegraph 2015a). Importantly, in the Monegraph ecology, it is the ‘most restrictive’ licence that permits the widest range of most non-commercial uses, while the ‘most liberal’ licence represents a strict commercial agreement. From a user perspective, these descriptions appear strange, to say the least, considering that the ‘most restrictive’ licence is significantly more open and flexible than the ‘most liberal’ one.
The description makes sense, however, when read from the perspective of the prospective owner of the digital asset. From this perspective, it is clear that what the Artwork licence actually restricts is the owner’s ability to commercially exploit the work, while the so-called liberal Snapshot licence allows for extensive commercial exploitation. To further clarify Monegraph’s conservative, profit-focused direction, a brief comparison of this language to the description of the popular digital licences offered by the non-profit Creative Commons organisation is useful. Creative Commons offers a system of simple licences that can be attached to any copyrightable artefact, in order to specify permissible uses. Importantly, the overall aim is to extend permissions for derivative and reproductive uses, rather than restrict them. Each of the six existing Creative Commons licences specifies the extent to which digital artefacts can be reproduced, disseminated, remixed, and commercially exploited. Within this licencing ecology, the ‘most restrictive’ licence is, unsurprisingly, the one that grants the least rights to users (the ‘CC BY-NC-ND’ licence, which requires attribution, only allows non-commercial uses, and prohibits the creation of derivative works), while the ‘most accommodating’, or most liberal, licence is the one that permits the widest range of uses (the ‘CC BY’ licence, which only requires attribution, but permits all remixes and transformative derivatives, as well as commercial exploitation) (Creative Commons n.d.).
On the Monegraph platform, the ability to derive financial rewards from uses of a digital artefact is considered ‘liberal’ because it affords the owner the widest range of rights; the fact that this logic heavily restricts audiences’ freedom to reuse the digital

artefacts in question seems irrelevant. This serves well to encapsulate the direction that this initiative appears to be taking; as far as Monegraph is concerned, revolutionising the digital art market means to create an infrastructure that goes beyond rendering digital art objects as stable monetary instruments and aims to link digital art production in general to blockchain-based financial technology.
3.3 Immaterial Labour and Digital Art: ‘Make Your Work Work for You’
I have already pointed to the importance of the concept of immaterial labour in this discussion. Generally defined as labour that ‘produces the informational and cultural content of the commodity’, the kinds of informational, intellectual, or communicational activities encompassed in this definition have come to dominate the experience of work in contemporary digital economies and often concern skills involving cybernetics and computer control (Lazzarato 2006, p. 132).23 One of the slogans used by Monegraph to advertise its platform—‘Make your work work for you’ (Monegraph n.d.)—powerfully invokes the concept of immaterial labour and suggests that this labour can be somehow automated. In the context of the present discussion, the slogan alludes both to the proof- of-work concept underlying blockchain-based technologies and to Lockean labour theory of property, as commonly invoked to justify intellectual property claims. The suggestion appears to be that Monegraph can ease the burden of immaterial labour or, at least, improve the ways in which it is rewarded. However, the conflation of proof-of- work and Lockean labour theory contradicts the concept of immaterial labour as it arises in Marxist media theory. Specifically, such theory assumes that a grain of autonomy remains with the labouring subject, and what is thus envisioned or hoped for is ultimately a break with capital (Terranova 2000, p. 40). Monegraph offers the opposite, namely a model in which value becomes irreversibly tied to semi- autonomous computational labour that could monitor and control dissemination, re- production, and usage of digital artefacts.
Locke’s views on appropriation and propertisation rely fundamentally on the active mixing of a creator’s labour with the artefact that is to become his or her creation. Monegraph, however, offers externalised, automatic value creation and protection warranted by and based on computational labour. It is not difficult to imagine a scenario in which such a foundation might be seen not only to challenge an artist’s ownership claims based on a Lockean approach but, in fact, to invalidate them. The decoupling of immaterial labour and value-verifying computational labour furthermore results in a new type of externalisation which, even if it results in the formation of a unique art object, may also bear little resemblance to the Hegelian concept of creation as the direct representation of a creator’s will. In this sense, Hegelian personality theory, too, displays poor compatibility with the Monegraph model, in which the connection between creator and work is becoming so abstract as to be, effectively, an algorithmi- cally encoded correlate of the ownership structure circumscribed by copyright law.
I take this to indicate that as a proponent of blockchain-based digital art markets, Monegraph does not prioritise creators’ rights in a deontological mode focused on

ethics of ownership; rather, it invokes IP justification models in conjunction with the utilitarian and consequentialist perspectives underlying its platform. Ultimately, this represents a conservative take on updating how contemporary copyright policy safe- guards artists’ rights. In a best-case scenario, Monegraph’s blockchain-based licencing and cataloguing system may certainly facilitate financial compensation of artists. It seems just as likely, however, that this system will further disavow artistic agency and creators’ rights, since, in practical terms, autonomous, self-enforcing, algorithmic contracts, and licences (especially when they are based on proprietary technology) will almost inevitably remove artists’ control over their work. Alongside such a develop- ment, the proof-of-work concept driving such technology may further prioritise the digital artwork as a quasi-autonomous artefact. This may well extend and reinforce past conceptual shifts of focus away from creators’ rights and towards the work as the most important constituent in the complex triangulations between creator, expression, and audiences/owners, in which the artist simply becomes one of many possible owners ‘of a special kind of commodity, the work’ (Rose 1988. p. 54). Proof-of-work verification systems as introduced above and due regard for the immaterial labour of artists must thus be seen to invoke two fundamentally different outlooks on ‘value.’
Following this logic, an argument might even be made that the rewards for control- ling circulation and commercial exploitation of a work should belong to the algorithm or, by extension, to those who control it—a further alienation of creators’ immaterial labour from the fruits of this labour. This approach is already realised at least partially in system like Bitcoin, where, as noted, the computational labour required to verify the system’s integrity simultaneously constitutes a ‘mining’ process rewarded with curren- cy units—all of which points to a reward/compensation logic in which computational labour directly produces abstract ownership without a need for ownable artefacts as the intermediary subject of ownership claims. Self-enforcing smart contracts and algorith- mically monitored copyright licences might be, to a certain degree, autonomous—but they know no ethics or politics of autonomy. Automated enforcement of contractual agreements means, rather, that they are ideal financialisation tools because they are beyond the direct control of the creators they are presumed to serve.
4 Digital Art as a Critique of Blockchain-Based IP Enforcement?
The critical thrust that drives contemporary art’s engagement with the supposedly problematic immateriality of the digital surely differs from the agenda underlying attempts to establish and control Bitcoin-based digital art markets. Experimental art has often problematised its relationship with the concepts of the work, the artist, and, by extension, the nature of creativity itself. Throughout the twentieth century, as art was ever more fully integrated with the logic of capital, this has become both more important and more difficult. In the resulting constellations, the digital has emerged both as a vehicle for critiquing this integration and as an effective container for financial assets. Importantly, both of these points hinge on the dynamism of the digital as easily copyable and replicable.
In the 1980s and 1990s, net art was an important example of this development (Bookchin and Shulgin 1999; Chan 2012). Many of net art’s best-known proponents were critically acclaimed precisely for the ways in which they turned against

institutional forces within the art world, often by critically engaging how art is
produced, exhibited, and owned. The art historical significance of net art is today
widely acknowledged (a large electronic art group exhibition showing at London’s
Whitechapel Gallery in early 2016 devoted a whole room to it), yet it continues to be
difficult to buy or own a piece of net art in the conventional sense of obtaining and then
owning a unique artefact. Shulgin and Bookchin have described net art as a temporary
autonomous zone with no tolerance for institutional dogma and the ideologically
suspect economic value systems propagated by institutional bureaucracies of the art
world (1999). The digital has here been found to offer a dynamic set of medium-
specific characteristics within which questions of form and content can lead to critical
explorations of modes of production, modes of distribution, and hierarchies of owner-
24
of algorithmic entities, it is this ambition to retain the dynamism of the digital in all aspects of art-making that should structure our engagement with blockchain technolo- gies. It should be clear that the complications provoked by such an approach (for example with regard to issues of attribution and the verification of authenticity) are precisely what motivate initiatives like Monegraph. Concerns with critical, creative engagement of the blockchain thus appear diametrically opposed to the economic agenda of commercial blockchain applications. The tension emerging from this oppo- sition indicates, once again, that while in aesthetic terms, the digital continues to inhabit sites of potentially uncommodifiable practice such as those net art sought to cultivate, in economic and legal terms the digital is squarely situated within the conflicted zones of commerce that intellectual property policy continually seeks to colonise. The fact that intellectual property regimes have so far failed to control flows of intangible creative expression effectively should not be taken to mean that digital art (or the digital artist) is in need of saving by blockchain technology. The digital is not a threat to art at all. It can, however, function as an impediment to capital’s appetite for commer- cial exploitation. In this regard, allowing commercial applications of blockchain-based financial technologies to defuse this critical potential is a grave mistake.
The reproducibility of the digital is linked to a utopian idea of over- abundance that has frequently been positioned against economic models in which the value of art-as-commodity is always measured as a function of scarcity. The artificial production of scarcity promised by Monegraph, in turn, appears to epitomise the enduring capitalist ideal of not only identifying new markets but also creating and controlling them. Foregrounding the interests of creators in explaining and justifying such applications may amount to little more than rhetorical spin, designed to generate goodwill in the artistic commu- nities that are treated as consumers of a valuable service. This is how intellec- tual property rhetoric has always worked. In approaching a conclusion, I now want to return to a core question regarding artistic agency and suggest that critical engagement of decentralisation technologies is vastly more desirable than merging digital creative practices with financial technologies.

ship.
Rather than streamlining commercial exploitation and bringing it under the purview

At the moment, only a small number of artists and curatorial collectives engage the blockchain with the criticality it commands. Among them is the London-based digital art and community collective Furtherfield, with an on-going project, Art | Data | Money, which blends exhibitions, workshops, and interdisciplinary research with activism and which engages blockchain technology with the explicit goal of building a ‘commons for art in the network age’ (2015a). This ambition departs from the work of contemporary artists such as Simon Denny, whose work on the blockchain (shown in 2016 both at Friedrich Petzel Gallery in New York City and at the Berlin Biennale (Biennale n.d.; Friedrich Petzel Gallery n.d.) is a far less critical documentation of emerging financial technologies. Projects such as Art | Data | Money are in stark opposition to the uses proposed by Monegraph and invite us to think of decentralisation not only as a framework for emerging financial technologies but in the more radically utopian senses in which the concept was initially seen by its early developers, who were inspired by Icrypto-anarchist ideas rather than corporate finance.25 The Furtherfield project description identifies in the blockchain a ‘wealth of possibilities for mutual prosperity’ (Furtherfield 2015a). This formulation does not refer to the kinds of enrichment envisioned by the developers of commercial blockchain-based digital art markets but instead to a community- oriented focus that prioritises collective cultural ownership over private property models.
Such a focus calls for alternative applications for blockchain technologies that oppose
the financialisation of digital art and provides alternatives to it and which foreground the
commonality and openness the blockchain can theoretically enable. At least two recent
exhibitions (The Human Face of Cryptoeconomics and Neoliberal Lulz, both in London
(Furtherfield 2015b; Carroll/Fletcher Gallery 2016) and the Institute of Network Culture’s
activism-focused international symposium MoneyLab (Institute of Network Culture 2016),
in Amsterdam, suggest that there is a growing recognition of the importance of such a
26
Myers (2014), included in the first of these exhibitions, questions the value presumably created by cryptocurrencies’ algorithmic proof-of-work systems and reconfigures them in such a way that the computational labour is rendered without value. The artwork represents numerical blockchain hashes as bitmap images, and the artist ‘(mis-)us[es] machine vision algorithms to find imaginary faces in [the] cryptographic hashes’ (Myers 2014). The computational verification labour now serves to carry out unpredictable, arbitrary, and somewhat fantastical acts of portraiture. It is no longer useful for generating economic value according to the Bitcoin/blockchain logic and does not serve to document or preserve uniqueness (and artificial scarcity). Instead, it has been recovered for quasi-aesthetic purposes that combine a commentary on the value of computational labour with a mocking reference to the art historical canon of portraiture masters, which continue to influence mainstream definitions of artistic value.
direction.
A work such as Facecoin reconceptualises immaterial art and, in the way it raises questions about the meanings of immaterial labour, functions as a performative inves- tigation of the underlying technologies. Commodification and financialisation efforts

are here absent, and the operational logic of the artwork gestures, at least indirectly, towards the recuperation of the anti-corporate and anti-institutional potential the blockchain was initially understood to have. This is diametrically opposed to Monegraph’s use of the proof-of-work concept to establish and fix artistic value. In Facecoin, no claim is made that the computational labour deployed would somehow tie the work more directly or firmly to the person of the artist. In fact, Facecoin would seem to highlight the absurdity of this notion given the computational, algorithmic contexts in which this digital artwork circulates. The deviation from perspectives grounded in Lockean labour theory and Hegelian personality theories is obvious. Here, computational labour does not ‘protect’ creative labour but labours creatively itself. Rather than being required to verify the value of the work, it is always already subsumed as a core component of the artistic process; it exists, therefore, outside of the valuation processes employed by blockchain-based marketplaces such as Monegraph.
Decentralisation platforms that employ distributed database technologies may ini- tially have appeared as ‘anti-authoritarian code that could (technically) disrupt the banking state’ (DeForrest et al. 2015). Today, there is a danger that tying digital art to the blockchain will obstruct better theorisation of the ontologies of the digital or the value of art in a commons of networked creative expression. The spectre of the smart contract is instead looming as a high-efficiency financialisation tool, such as in the form of self-enforcing intellectual property licences. Once irreversibly tied to digital arte- facts, such licences will surely impact how these artefacts can be created and shared. The fact that smart contracts, partly due to their decentralised nature, are presumed to be resistant to manipulation does not alleviate this concern. Algorithmic decentralisa- tion inevitably translates to a lack of regulatory structures, which make such systems ‘prone to the kinds of hoarding, dumping, and manipulation that characterize all instruments that lack central bank control and regulatory oversight’ (Golumbia 2014). While the concept of decentralisation is thus useful for describing technical principles powering the blockchain, it does not serve well to describe the emerging economic structures created by blockchain-based services. In practice, it has indeed begun to emerge that cryptocurrencies incentivise centralisation, since focused control over large amounts of computer processing power (such as represented by dedicated mining ‘farms’) tends to result in disproportionate accumulation of circulating currency units. Massive wealth concentration can already be observed in prominent examples such as the Bitcoin system itself, where monopolisation is beginning to counteract the systems horizontal ideals (Samtani and Baliga 2015). A related concern is the fact that core processes underlying the operation of theoretically decentralised blockchain-based systems may be controlled by developers, system administrators, and others ‘whose influence does not depend on the computing power that they control but is rather derived from their function within the system’ (Gervais et al. 2014, p. 3). Likewise, in proprietary digital art markets such as Monegraph, ownership and control of the underlying computational infrastructure, representing the system’s means of (re-)pro- duction, lie outside the reach of the artists invited to use the service.
The idea that commercial digital art markets based on blockchain technologies will empower artists by safeguarding their interests is naive. While the blockchain-based databases underlying Monegraph and similar initiatives may be of a decentralised nature, the information they contain is far from being held in common and can be

removed from the control of the artists, who might find themselves disenfranchised and alienated from their creative labour in much the same ways in which creators have throughout the history of expanding IP regimes. Once decentralisation technologies are folded into proprietary, commercial products and services, models of centralised finance will be far from being disrupted but rather reinforced. The fact that such technologies are cryptographically secure might simply mean that the centralisation efforts they ultimately represent will be difficult, if not impossible, to counteract.
Technology has always reflected the values of those who engineer it. Already, there is a diverse mix of stakeholders involved in shaping the future of the blockchain. While financial institutions and corporations are more and more dominating this mix, along- side artists and activists, it also includes software engineers, designers, policy makers, economists, and legal theorists. The blockchain holds considerable potential for the expression of diverse and wide-ranging critical perspectives, and if it is to be kept from being fully realised as yet another financial instrument, it is important that activists and artists are seen not as the ‘beneficiaries’ of pseudo-decentralised, blockchain-based IP enforcement technologies but, rather, as practitioners whose work performs crucially important tasks of exploring the socio-political, economic, and aesthetic potentials that this technology holds. Could digital art on the blockchain in this sense offer a more radical approach to intellectual property that goes beyond the mix of Lockean, Hege- lian, and utilitarian perspectives that currently inform IP policy? What might such a perspective come to entail, if digital artists embrace what the blockchain has to offer technologically and conceptually while rejecting traditional private ownership ideals and commercial value based on artificial scarcity?
When the blockchain becomes both medium and subject of critical artistic practice, artists will, at the very least, ‘(1) discover ways to extend the expressive and commu- nicative range of tools, devices, and systems; (2) [make] connections that are neither necessarily utilitarian nor profitable [and] explore potential for diverse human interest and experience; (3) [and] do the cognitive work to make difficult abstractions more legible and fascinating’ (Catlow 2016). There can be no doubt that practitioners should have a voice in the shaping of a technology which, for better or worse, is going to stay with us and gain more importance for some time to come. In a recently published collaborative essay entitled ‘Futures Along the Blockchain’, the co-authoring artists and critics hoped to produce models ‘that use the blockchain to make our lives richer’ (DeForrest et al. 2015). Given current implementations of the technology, this state- ment invokes desires for the kinds of enrichment that a proprietary digital art market- place could bring for an elite of digital art collectors. But such implementations serve to expand and fortify the power of existing institutions of the high-stakes art market, not to limit it.
Concerns that the shifting of legal and ethical responsibilities to software will not point in the direction of a more open, free, and egalitarian network society but rather towards a society that is more strictly surveilled and controlled and that affords us less creative and critical freedom (e.g. Lessig 2006), ring more true than ever today. As I have argued, a self-governing utopia of digital art is not the likely outcome if the identity or authenticity of artworks becomes contingent on blockchain entries or if computational labour serves to determine and secure commercial value of art, supplanting the notion of immaterial labour. Through combination of the blockchain and IP rights management into a conceptual-computational financial technology, recent

developments point in the direction of renewed vertical wealth concentration and the consolidation of control over decentralised systems. Now, more than ever, digital artists must develop tactics to resist the assimilation of creative practices into self-actualising, autonomously controlled commodity circuits of artificial scarcity and resist the broad- scale financialisation of digital art itself. It remains to be seen how emerging digital art practices may realise the disruptive, revolutionary potential of the blockchain and whether such practices can shape the blockchain towards the extension, rather than further enclosing, of the creative commons.

Text mining as a facilitating tool for deploying
blockchain technology in the intellectual property
rights system

Abstract: The aim of the study is to introduce a new application of
machine-learning techniques (text mining, clustering and classification) and the
blockchain technology within the intellectual property rights (IPRs)
management system. Using such machine-learning techniques facilitates the
management process of intellectual properties (IPs) and makes it more
efficient. Additionally, using the blockchain technology for IPRs management
purposes enables all stakeholders to utilise the extracted data of the IP objects
from the blockchain network. In this study, a text-mining technique was used to
identify the two types of IP documents based on specific categories, namely,
patent and trademark. In order to achieve this objective, a range of
machine-learning techniques was used for 5,500 patent documents and
400 trademark documents. The results of the logistic regression model showed
a high level of prediction accuracy of document type at the pre-registration
stage on the blockchain network. This high level of prediction accuracy
demonstrates that using machine-learning and text-mining techniques will
facilitate the IPRs management system. This new application of specific
machine-learning techniques in the IPRs management process contributes
essentially to solving the problem in a conventional IPRs system associated
with rights protection and data availability

1 Introduction
Management of intellectual property rights (IPRs) is considered a crucial issue at both
national and international levels, where a range of types of intellectual property (IP) are
registered every day in local and international intellectual property offices (Savelyev,
2017). Analysing all these kinds of information is a strategic instrument for both
policymakers and business sector productivity since the management of such big data
provides a comprehensive landscape of technology trends (Chang et al., 2009) and
potential industrial applications.
A conventional IPRs management system does not seem to meet the scale of the rapid
development taking place in the new economy (Gerken and Moehrle, 2012), where the
pace of competition is very fast and there is a need for a quick and dynamic response to
the rapid changes in the market. As long as patenting through the old system requires a
considerable time and effort, the ability to conduct a patent landscape of a specific
technology will remain a difficult task (Liu et al., 2011). It does not cover efficiently
many important issues of IPs information management such as: securing trade secrets,
claiming copyrights (Savelyev, 2018), proving prior use, confidentiality agreements, and
technology licenses. Therefore, integrating the blockchain technology (BCT) within the
IPRs system is becoming a de facto requirement under such circumstances.
The conventional IPRs system requires a long period of time for patenting. The
current patent system, for example, requires 3–6 months to fill the patent application and
to be published. After that, patentability of this invention is examined, which requires
3–5 years (WIPO, 2017). This is considered a long period in which new inventions can
emerge in the market, reducing the possibility of commercialisation of this invention in
the future.
The current patent system makes it difficult for the new inventor, whether a company
or a private person, to search and conduct a landscape of a specific technology that could
contradict with their invention and break the novelty of their invention, since exciting
patent data requires complex techniques (Noh et al., 2015; Segev and Kantola, 2012) to
obtain useful information.

I. Alnafrah et al.
In addition to all previous shortcomings of conventional IPRs system, the legal
procedures of issuing and using the patent in the current patent system make litigation
between companies very costly. In 2015, there were more than 5,600 cases of patent
litigation and the costs of these litigations were about $9.2 million (Lex Machina, 2015).
These figures show that the current legal mechanism of obtaining a patent and
commercialising it is not sufficiently effective for entrepreneurs to motivate them to
spend more money on the R&D activities, especially in countries with low level of IP
protection.
In order to overcome all the previous shortcomings of the conventional IPRs system,
there is a need to find a unique solution based on using a new technology that is
blockchain technology.
There are many studies in the literature that addressed various potential applications
of this new technology (Chen et al., 2018; Mougayar, 2016; Ruzakova and Grin, 2017;
Yli-Huumo et al., 2016), yet they did not answer the question of deploying BCT within
the IPRs management system.
In this paper, we argue that using BCT enables us to combine legal code and technical
code (Yaga et al., 2018; De Filippi and Hassan, 2018) and thereby enhancing the
effectiveness of IPRs management system. Moreover, smart contracts associated with
BCT prove every day that this technology is no longer associated only with storing values
on servers, but also the other legal aspects add new potentials to this technology.
BCT provides a distributed peer to peer network, where there is no need for an
intermediary party (Christidis and Devetsikiotis, 2016) and the trust between peers is
maintained by the consensus mechanism of this network. This technology helps in
creating an immutable ledger including all information related to all transactions taking
place on the network. Accordingly, BCT allows participants to interact securely and
reducing transactional costs (Kosba et al., 2016).
In general, there are two main objectives for using this new technology in the IPRs
management system along with integrating various machine-learning techniques with it:
x The first objective is to register the new IP objects at the pre-registration stage,
where using the BCT helps IP applicants to register their new IP documents on the
blockchain platform through encrypting them by a unique cryptographic key. At this
stage, various machine-learning techniques will be used to identify the type of IP
documents.
x The second objective is to provide information about the IP objects that have been
registered on the blockchain platform. Here the blockchain platform will provide an
access to all information about IP objects and make it easy to conduct a market
landscape for any specific technology based on the information provided in this
platform.
The first objective is achieved by filling out the details of the IP object on the network
and then defining the enforcement mechanism of this object through an adjustable smart
contract, that can be modified according to the needs of the owner. However, identifying
the appropriate rules to execute the smart contract is very difficult, since the owner and
the end user could be located in different countries. This situation creates many complex
legal issues (De Filippi, 2014).
Achieving the second objective leads to establishing a public (permissioned or
permissionless) blockchain network of intellectual properties at the national level, as well

as speeding up the process of conducting a patents landscape for a particular
technological field, or even gives an overview of the structure of the innovation activities
in the national economy. This enables entrepreneurs to analyse a particular market to
identify the potential opportunities besides the benefits of saving time and effort, as well
as of higher confidence and reliability (Larios-Hernández, 2017). Accordingly,
entrepreneurs will be able to reduce the risk of their investments associated with the
uncertainty resulting from the shortcomings of the current IPRs system (Nærland et al.,
2017). Therefore, the BCT provides a revolutionary way to solve many problems of the
IPRs management system.
This study tries to provide an executive framework for a new application of the BCT.
This framework includes two stages:
1 pre-registration stage
2 post-registration stage.
With a range of techniques used to deal with the IP documents in the pre-registration
stage.
This paper consists of five sections: Section 1 includes the introduction. Section 2
represents the theoretical framework of study including blockchain-based IPRs
management system. Section 3 covers the data and methodology used in this study.
Section 4 discusses the results. Section 5 is the conclusion.
2 Theoretical framework
In 2008, a new ‘peer-to-peer electronic cash system’ was released by Nakamoto. This
new system is based on a revolutionary technology called blockchain technology. The
blockchain is “a distributed ledger representing a network consensus of every transaction
that has ever occurred” (Tapscott and Tapscott, 2017). In this blockchain, every
participant has their own copy of the ledger, where the security of assets is maintained by
public-key cryptography and no one can change the information of transactions within
blocks. This immutability of the BCT ensures trust among all participants (Nodes) in the
network without any intervention from any third party.
Generally, every block in the blockchain consists of four basic elements:
x all details of transactions
x a timestamp
x the ‘hash’ of the previous block
x the proof of work created by the miners within the chain.
It is worth mentioning that the hash function is non-invertible. This feature of the
blockchain makes changing the information in the blocks extremely difficult, unless
when more than 51% of the hashes are controlled by a single node when all the
information within the blockchain can be changed (Efanov and Roschin, 2018). However,
the likelihood of this is very low, because the more participants in the network, the more
difficult it becomes to be hacked

There are four main types of blockchain (Hileman and Rauchs, 2017; Mougayar,
2016):
x Public permissionless blockchain: in this kind of blockchain, anyone can join the
network as well as write and read (for example, Bitcoin and Ethereum). In this kind
of blockchain, there is no single owner of the network and it provides anonymity.
Although this kind of blockchain is considered extremely secure, it requires a long
time to verify the transactions, since the electricity needed to verify each additional
transaction increases. Here the proof of work is more efficient than in other types of
blockchain, where more nodes participate in the verification of the transaction.
x Public permissioned blockchain: in this blockchain, anyone can join the network, but
unlike the public permissionless blockchain, only authorised participants are allowed
to write on the network (for example Sovrin).
x Consortium blockchain: combines public and private blockchain features. Here, the
ability to read the information in this network is restricted to an authorised set of
participants. Similarly, only authorised participants are allowed to write on the
network (for example, multiple banks operating a shared ledger).
x Private blockchain: in this kind of blockchain, the ability to read the information in
this network is fully private for a set of authorised nodes. Regarding the ability to
write on the network, only the network operator can do it (for example, internal bank
ledger shared between parent company and subsidiaries).
The BCT brings with it many potential applications to the economy and society,
including healthcare system (Ekblaw et al., 2016), meeting education challenges like
support academic degree management (Chen et al., 2018), summative evaluation of
learning outcomes (Sharples and Domingue, 2016), supply chain systems (O’Leary,
2017), fashion industry (Burbidge, 2017) and virtual identity (Shrier et al., 2016).
Regarding the IP, using the BCT to deal with various IP objects makes it an
institution of property (Ishmaev, 2017). However, this institution of property differs from
the conventional one, since this new institution does not rely on traditional legal means.
Here, there is no need for a third party to enforce contracts.
2.1 BCT-based IPRs management system
Integrating the BCT within the IPRs management system can provide numerous benefits
to the entrepreneurs and policymakers in terms of conducting the patent landscape or
drawing the technology policy and strategy at the national level (Kshetri, 2017).
Blockchain-based IPRs system increases the availability of information about a range of
IP objects, which can be provided by a very important feature of the BCT, the so-called
‘trusted timestamping’ (Savelyev, 2018). Therefore, the BCT enables all stakeholders to
boost the administrative capacity and their own competitiveness as well. Nevertheless,
before integrating the BCT within the IPRs system, it is necessary to develop technical
and legal criteria that balance the interests between the IP object holders and the end
users (Ruzakova and Grin, 2017).
Using BCT to manage the IPRs system in general and patents, in particular, is a
revolutionary solution. This technology will allow patent applicants to speed up the
process of patenting their IP objects, as well as protect their rights against counterfeiting

in the future, since the features of the blockchain provide a safe environment for storing
and using such sensitive data efficiently. Technically, this process requires nothing but a
special private cryptography key, a peer to peer network and a blockchain protocol (Xu,
2016). Nevertheless, integrating such technology within the IPRs management system
does not involve only the technical aspect. There are many other concerns related to legal
issues, such as jurisdiction, liability, data privacy and smart contract enforcement
(McKinlay, 2016).
This new technology nowadays can be used to manage and organise IPRs, where
integrating the BCT with the IPRs management system secures trade secrets, proves prior
use, stops patent trolls, defines and protects the IPRs, secures copyright, saves time and
cuts the costs. According to this new IPRs management system, all stakeholders of the IP
market can secure their rights against hackers and patent trolls (Zyskind and Nathan,
2015; Zheng et al., 2017). It also creates a good competitive environment among players
in this market (Ølnes et al., 2017). Figure 1 represents this new BCT-based IPRs
management system

Figure 1 shows the main steps of issuing a BCT-based IP certificate, where the IP holders
can fill out all details of their IP object themselves and upload the documents to the
BC-based platform. After that, the IP document will be encrypted and hashed through a
one-way hash function. Then all participants (nodes) in the network approve transactions
related to this IP object (proof of work or proof of stack). As a result of this process, the
owner of the IP object will have a BC-based certificate proving their ownership of that IP
object. This certificate could be used as notarised arguments proving the prior ownership
of the IP object (Rivière, 2018). However, this new process needs a long time for the IP
holder to fill out all the details of the IP object on the blockchain platform in order to
encrypt it (Gao and Nobuhara, 2017). Similarly, the end user, who is looking for a
specific type of IP object, will also face a difficulty in finding the right object in the
network. Besides, all previous IP objects that have been registered in the official IP
offices need to be registered on blocks within the IP chain at the national level. This
process requires significant effort and a long time to digitise the whole IPRs system.
Thus, there is a need to integrate some machine-learning techniques within the
BCT-based IPRs system.
In this study, we suggest using text-mining techniques and machine-learning
classification techniques to overcome the previous problems associated with deploying
BCT within the IPRs management system. Integrating these techniques with the
blockchain platform, whether it is public or private, speeds up the registration process
and make it time and cost effective (Jang and Lee, 2018). Using such techniques

facilitates the management process of IPRs, where filling out and defining the details of
smart contracts and other IP object details through machine-learning techniques (MLTs)
will be automated. Consequently, the BCT&MLTs-based IPRs management system
works as represented in Figure 2.

We argue that integrating BCT and MLTs in the same platform for managing the IPRs
will create an effective ecosystem that brings investors and inventors together in one
market. This new approach of IPRs management system makes it easy for both the owner
of the IP object and the end user to manage their transactions and activities within this
new BC&MLTs-based IPRs system. This new approach will change the mechanisms and
dynamics of the economic ecosystem of the IPRs system (Huckle et al., 2016), where the
BC&MLTs-based IP platform provides a marketplace to the inventors and investors who
are looking for investment opportunities.
Moreover, BCT&MLTs-based IPRs management platform will cut a lot of costs to
stakeholders (inventors, investors and lawyers). For inventors, it will help them to show
their ideas and inventions, while at the same time ensuring the protection of these
inventions. Investors, on the other hand, will be able to find and choose the inventions
they want to invest in. Lawyers will be able to use proof of exciting and proof of
ownership in the IP litigations. Thus, this platform provides many services related to the
IPRs in one place, which will cut a lot of costs, save time, and efforts

3 Data and methodology
In this study, 5,900 documents (5,500 patents and 400 trademarks) were analysed. This
dataset was extracted from the United States patent and trademarks office (USPTO)
(https://www.uspto.gov/). Since patents and trademarks have the largest number of
registration requests (WIPO, 2017), they were chosen to conduct this analysis. In 2016

the number of patent applications stood at 3.127 million applications, whereas the
number of trademarks applications reached 9.8 million applications (WIPO, 2017). This
implies that any potential platform for managing the IPRs has to deal with these two
types of IP objects rather than other types like industrial designs, and utility models.
Each patent document includes the following information: title, abstract and
international patent classification (IPC), whereas the trademark document includes title,
abstract and the trademark logo. In order to standardise the texts of all documents, we
analysed only the abstract of each document with two main attributes: Patent and
Trademark.
The overall approach of this study is to consider the two main stages:
1 the pre-registration stage, for which machine-learning classification techniques were
used to classify various IP documents into two attributes
2 the post-registration stage, where all texts on the blockchain network can be analysed
through text-mining techniques.
Figure 3 represents the methodology workflow of this study

In the pre-registration stage, a supervised machine-learning technique was used to build a
classification model, where a variety of classification algorithms were used to train the
model, including k-nearest neighbours (KNN), decision tree (D.Tree) and logistic
regression.
Regarding the K-nearest neighbours algorithm, it is a non-parametric algorithm,
where samples are classified according to their neighbours. This algorithm performs very
well for large training dataset (Richman, 2011). This algorithm has an advantage which is
the simplicity, where there are only two conditions to conduct this algorithm (Neath and
Johnson, 2010):
1 defining the number of neighbours (K)
2 extracting the distance metric that will be used.

On the other hand, decision tree algorithm has some advantages over other algorithms. It
is tolerant to noise, support dataset with missing values. Additionally, the induction of
this model is not costly (Jenhani et al., 2008; López-Chau et al., 2013).
The third algorithm used in this study is the logistic regression. In the logistic
regression, the outputs take only two binary values (0 or 1). In other words, the only two
possible values of the dependent variables are (0 or 1). So, the given inputs will belong to
a certain class according to the probability of this algorithm (Mokhtari and Ribeiro,
2015). The logistics regression algorithm showed a high accuracy level in many previous
studies (Pranckevičius and Marcinkevičius, 2017; Bui et al., 2016). However, in other
studies this algorithm did not show that accuracy compared with other algorithms
(Forman, 2003; Al-Saqqa et al., 2018).
These models were trained by using 70% of the dataset. The ultimate model classifies
any IP document and gives it an attribute. However, this attribute can be changed
according to the blockchain administration requirements and preferences. Therefore, as a
result of this process, all IP documents will be uploaded on the blockchain platform with
a specific category.
Regarding the post-registration stage, the blockchain platform will give all
stakeholders an access to the IP documents in general and patent documents in particular.
Thanks to the decentralisation feature of the blockchain, IP data can be extracted from the
blockchain network and then analysed in order to conduct a patent landscape and forecast
technological trends. This task can be achieved by using some text-mining techniques.
It is worth to mention in this context, that there have been some previous researches
in which text mining has been used for conducting patent analysis (Noh et al., 2015;
Tseng et al., 2007) and for forecasting a promising technology (Kim and Bae, 2017).
However, integrating machine-learning and text-mining techniques within BCT to
manage various types of IP objects is still a relevant issue in the context of the IPRs
management system. Accordingly, we introduce using a range of text-mining techniques
in the post-registration stage.
Text mining is “a process that employs a set of algorithms for converting unstructured
text into structured data items and the quantitative methods used to analyse these data
items” (Balamurugan and Pushpa, 2015). There are many approaches to analyse texts.
Each approach refers to achieving a specific goal. For example, Information Extraction
from text (IE) is used to extract information or facts from documents, text summarisation
is applied for getting a concise overview of a large document or a collection of
documents on a topic (Hotho et al., 2005).
Generally, there are two basic MLTs used in text mining: clustering or unsupervised
MLTs and classification or supervised MLTs. According to the former type of
techniques, text analysis consists of two stages: data preparation and data analysis
(Allahyari et al., 2017), where the key features of IP documents are defined based on
various IP objects. The latter type of techniques includes labelling all documents for a
training dataset. These labels represent a range of IP objects. The ultimate goal of this
technique is to build a model for predicting the labels of IP documents for any new
dataset.
At this stage, we propose using a range of algorithms such as: K-means (Shanie et al.,
2017), K-NN (k nearest neighbour classification), support vector machine (Ghosh et al.,
2012), decision tree induction, agglomerative and divisive, probabilistic clustering and
topic models and keyword extraction algorithm (Redhu et al., 2018).
Figure 4 represents the main steps of text mining in the post-registration stage.

As shown in Figure 4, integrating text-mining techniques within the blockchain platform
includes the following steps:
x Text pre-processing and processing: this process includes collection creation,
document parsing and segmentation, and text summarisation.
x Text transformation: transforming the unstructured text into structured data. In our
case, we have already created a structured text.
x Indexing: here we identify the keywords, conduct phrase extraction and stopword
filtering.
x Topic clustering: in this step, we select the IPs terms and conduct the document
clustering for a training dataset. This clustering process differs from that of the
pre-registration stage. In the pre-registration stage, the labels of clusters were defined
before training the model, whereas in the post-registration stage, the labels of
clusters have not been defined previously. Accordingly, unsupervised
machine-learning techniques will be used at this stage.
x Documents classification: in this step, the classification model identifies the IP
documents details according to the predefined clusters in the previous step.
As a result of the text mining process in the post-registration stage, stakeholders
including investors, inventors and policymakers will be able to identify the potential
opportunities for their future investments or technology policies.
4 Results and discussion
As mentioned earlier, three main classification algorithms were used in this study:
1 decision tree
2 k-nearest neighbours

The results show that the logistic regression model has the highest prediction accuracy
with 100% of the IP documents, whereas the accuracy of other models is not high enough
to be integrated within the blockchain platform. This implies that our model (logistic
model) can identify the IP document type (patent or trademark) with 100% accuracy
prediction. Therefore, this model facilitates the registration process of the IP documents
on the blockchain platform. At this stage, this platform provides a proof of existence
rights from the beginning.
It is worth noting here that this machine-learning model will be used in the
pre-registration stage for both new IP objects and those that have been already registered
on the national IPR offices. Therefore, integrating MLTs in this stage will overcome one
of the most important shortcomings of the current IPRs management system, which is a
long period of time needed to process IP documents.
After registering the IP documents on the blockchain platform with defined labels, all
stakeholders will have access to a large amount of information related to the IP objects
provided by this platform. Consequently, they can analyse these texts through
text-mining techniques and evaluate a specific technology.
Thanks to this new approach of using MLTs with BCT in the IPRs system, there is no
longer need for a third party to conduct a patent search or patent landscape. Now all data
are available on this platform. Any inventor can add their patent and encrypt it.
Moreover, this platform will be a marketplace of the potential investment opportunities,
where investors and inventors can transact by using smart contracts.
This new approach proposed in this study has good implications for policymakers
helping them in managing the IPRs system at the national level and in drawing sound
innovation policies and strategies based on solid knowledge about the IP market and
actors. It will be easy for them to extract and utilise the information in the

blockchain-based IPRs platform. This extracted information shows the technological
progress achieved within the economy, in addition to the strengths and weaknesses of the
innovation activities of the economic actors.
Deploying such techniques within public blockchain-based IPRs platform at the
national level has an influential impact on the innovation process, since the good and
health IP system is one of the most important successful factors of the national innovation
system (Furukawa, 2010; Sweet and Maggio, 2015; Alnafrah and Mouselli, 2018). This
platform maintains the security of all kinds of IPRs within the economy leading to create
a motivation for entrepreneurs to innovate and invent as well.
However, there are still other concerns related to the smart contract execution, since
this platform may include participants from various countries. Another concern is the
answer to the question of who will manage this platform? Is it the government or a
private organisation? Here we suggest the government should be in charge of managing
this platform, since it is the only actor in the IP market that can set the regulatory
standards of the IP market transactions. Otherwise, we will have many private companies
providing this service, which, in this situation will make it hard to dispute resolution and
legal enforcement (Goldenfein and Leiter, 2018).
Regarding the post-registration stage, there is still a future scope for other researchers
to create a new tool for extracting data from blockchain platform. In many blockchain
platforms like Bitcoin and Ethereum, there is a special tool called ‘Blockchain Explorer’.
This explorer enables all participants to read the information of each transaction.
However, it does not provide all the details needed in the IPRs case. There are some new
projects dealing with this problem such as ‘Loci’ (http://locisearch.com), ‘Relecura’
(http://relecura.com/) and iPCHAIN (https://ipchain.global/possibilities/). However, all
these projects are run by private companies and anyone who wants to benefit from the
services provided by these projects has to pay a fee by buying ‘tokens’.
Therefore, there is a need for a public blockchain where anyone has access to all IP
objects information. In this platform, any use of this information is trackable, and the
rights of all participants are protected. As a result of creating this public blockchain, we
can build an efficient and healthy ecosystem for all IPRs transactions, thus empowering
an innovation environment

This article introduces using the BCT in the IPRs management system in addition to
integrating MLTs with this system, where a range of text mining algorithms was used in
the pre-registration stage.
This study differs from other studies focusing on deploying BCT within the IPRs
system. This study is the first study proposing a holistic approach to deal with various
problems of the current IPRs system in pre-registration and post-registration stages. Other
studies in this field tried to find different methods for deploying BCT within the IPRs
system, for instance creating blockchain patent pool to share IPRs and benefit from them,
in addition to reducing the patented patent cost (Blockchain IP Foundation, 2017),
enforcing IP on the BCT for digital art (Zeilinger, 2018), and building a BCT-based IP
system at the national level like in Australia (IP Australia, 2017)

Additionally, proposing integrating MLTs within BCT-based IP platform goes
beyond the technical and legal aspects of deploying BCT within the IPRs management
system. It opens the door for a new aspect related to the ecosystem of this new
marketplace created by this new type of platforms.
Our classification model shows that using such algorithms will facilitate the
management process of IPRs at the national level. The high prediction accuracy of our
model demonstrates that integrating MLTs with the blockchain-based IPRs system will
speed up the registration process and enhance the cost and time-effectiveness of the IPRs
management. Nevertheless, this new platform needs further improvements in terms of
novelty checking of IP objects, conducting a patent landscape more easily, and solving
the problem of off-chain IPRs related activities. All these issues are considered relevant
future scopes for the other researchers.
However, the question of who will run this platform is still an issue. We suggested
that the government can run this platform because of a range of legal concerns. The role
of government will be determined according to the blockchain type. So, will the
government administrate this BC-based platform, or will its role be limited to
stewardship? All these questions are relevant to all stakeholders in the IP markets,
especially to policymakers, where the decentralization feature of the blockchain is not
compatible with the public administration of the IPRs system. In this study, we suggest
that building a permission-less IP blockchain can meet this problem.

Blockchain Technology and Intellectual Property Rights  

Blockchain is a decentralized; peer-to-peer network based public, encrypted and immutable digital federated ledger 
system. This paper focuses on interplay of blockchain technology and intellectual property rights (IPRs). It explores the 
avenues where blockchain technology can be useful in processing of IP applications, maintaining IP records, licensing and 
smart contracts, enforcement and management of IP rights. Apart from the use of blockchain in IP management, other uses 
of blockchain technology for various e-governance schemes initiated by government of India and state governments have 
also been highlighted. 

It’s an era of disruptive technologies. These 
technologies are rapidly evolving and changing the 
way we live and conduct business. It will not be 
exaggeration, if we rate this era as the most fluid period 
in the history of human evolution; when we are 
witnessing the technologies outpacing each other in 
record time. Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, 
Virtualization, Internet of Things, Blockchain, Deep 
Learning, etc. have become buzz words giving an ever 
widening canvass of technological developments. 
Intellectual property rights (IPRs) and technological 
developments are complementary supplementary to 
each other. The rapid growth in technology requires 
corresponding IP laws to keep pace with such growth.  
 

“Disruptive technologies such as Block-chain 
and the Internet of Things will have a profound 
impact in the way we live and work. They will 
require rapid adaptation in our workplaces”1 

IP offices across globe witness a quick influx of 
patent applications relating to AIs, Cloud Computing, 
Virtualization, Internet of Things, Blockchain 
technology and related distributed ledger 
technologies. While the IP communities across the 
globe are concerned about devising appropriate IP 
laws to protect these emergent technologies, the true 
potential of these latest technologies need to be 
leveraged in IP regime itself by utilizing their mettle 

to address issues ranging from inception of a possible 
IP to its enforcement. These latest technologies may 
be used in wide ranging applications like  
re-engineering processes of prosecution, protection of 
IPRs, their enforcement and promotions.  

This paper shall confine itself to Blockchain 
technologies and various possibilities it offers for the 
IP regimes and other possible applications of 
Blockchain Technologies in the field of e-governance 
and public good. 
 
Blockchain Technology 

Blockchain technology is a decentralized, peer-to-
peer network based public, encrypted and immutable 
digital federated ledger system. The shared decentralized 
ledger is maintained by the participants themselves and 
do not need a third party intervention. The technology is 
tamperproof as data put in to the blockchain cannot be 
tampered without being noticed. It offers multi-
dimensional utility as it can store literally any kind of 
data; be it crypto currency, transactional information, 
contractual data, design data etc., immutability, 
traceability and no third party invention are unique 
attributes which make the blockchain technologies an 
exciting proposition in today’s era, which is vulnerable 
to cyber attacks on centralized systems. 

The Blockchain technology involves storage of 
information in encrypted independent blocks, which 
are linked using hash pointers. These hash pointers 
link one block to another to form a chain i.e. 
blockchain. These blocks are independently time-
stamped and contain individual transactional data. 

The ledger is maintained in decentralized manner 
wherein no subsequent transaction is possible without 
the consensus of the network participants. 
 

Blockchain and IP – A Two Way relationship 
IP and Blockchain have dual relationship, whereby 

IP system protects blockchain on one hand, and 
Blockchain technology can be utilized to strengthen 
the IP regime on the other. 
 

IP protecting Blockchain 
With the world gearing up to the use of blockchain 

to harness unexplored potentials of various industries, 
intellectual property can play a key role in future. 
There has been a steady growth in the number of 
entities hoping to secure patents over technology using 
blockchain as a base. A glance of filing of patent 
applications in Blockchain technology at Indian Patent 
Office (IPO)2 reveals that nearly 112 applications 
published so far, the contribution from Indian 
applicants is considerably high to the tune of 39 
applications. 
 

Blockchain Strengthening IP Regime 
A sound intellectual property system requires strong, 

traceable and verifiable records of IP rights. In the 
present scenario, where IP records are being 
maintained at each IP offices in silos; there is every 
possibility of the data not being in sync. In such a 
situation, ensuring the correctness of data and its 
continuous updation poses a big challenge. With the 
advent of blockchain technology, IP offices across the 
globe can be immensely benefitted by using these 
technologies in maintaining their IP registers.  

The immutability, reliability, security, efficiency and 
federated features of blockchain may be used 
throughout the life cycle of IP rights be it registration, 
licensing, contractual agreements and enforcement. 
The blockchain technology has the potential to be used 
in the following activities:  
 
Creation of IP  

Blockchain has immense potential in establishing 
evidence of first inventorship (in patents)/creatorship 
(in copyright)/first use in trade (in trademarks). This 
will not only help in identifying the rightful 
inventor/creator/proprietor, but would also lead to 
minimizing significant number of litigations. 
 
Transmission of Data on Blockchain while Filing for IP Rights  

The filing data maintained on blockchain will have 
sufficient evidentiary value to determine the rights of 
first filer in a “First-to-File” regime. It also negates 
any possibility of tinkering with the database. 
 
Synchronized Search Databases  

Blockchain technology can be used to synchronize 
the internal as well as external search database. This 
will help the patent examiners in searching the 
invention for anticipation by providing a single 
consolidated platform for patent literature.  
 
Record Keeping, Ledger Maintenance and Data Verification  

The IP offices across the globe maintain IP 
registers either in paper form or electronically. These 
registers have evidentiary value in court of law to 
justify the right of the holder. It also contains records 
of subsequent transactions of these rights. The 
registers can well be maintained using blockchain 
technology whereby ensuring correctness of data and 
real time updation of records in case of transfer of 
rights with due audit trails. The data verification will 
be much simpler as it will be totally tamperproof. 
 
Collaboration between IP Offices and World Intellectual 
Property Offices (WIPO)  

Blockchain having immutable/traceable feature 
will prove to be very useful in modern schemes like 
Patent Prosecution Highway (PPH) while 
collaborating with other IP offices during prosecution 
of IP applications. The information sharing with 
WIPO will also be easier if the data is available and 
maintained using blockchain technology especially 
while working as International Searching Authority 
(ISA) /International Preliminary Examining Authority 
(IEPA) and/or Receiving office (RO). 

SINGH & TRIPATHI: BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 

Detecting and Preventing Counterfeiting  
When the data is maintained on blockchain, tracking 

and detecting IPR violations like fake goods, parallel 
imports etc and providing evidence of genuineness 
would become easier. It will help detecting counterfeit 
goods by custom authorities thereby preventing their 
entry in the domestic market. The technology can find 
its use in preventing the sale of fake drugs in the 
country by tracking every step of its supply chain 
network. 
 
Licensing, Contractual Agreements and IP Rights Management  

Smart contracts enabled through blockchain 
technology will be immensely useful in licensing of IP 
rights and related contractual agreements; as the smart 
blockchain contracts can help in self-monitoring terms 
and their due execution, real-time payment and 
maintaining immutable proof of their execution etc. IP 
rights management will be simplified with blockchain 
based IP data since the information about both the 
rights and the right-holders as well as the probable and 
prospective users will be available on real-time 
verifiable basis. 
 
Advantages to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)  

If the information regarding enforced and expired 
IP rights are made available on blockchain, it will 
help the MSMEs to invest their resources in the free 
domain without infringing others rights and also to 
use the technologies for which the IP rights have 
already expired. 
 

Better Enforcement Mechanism  
The genuineness of IP rights and their holders will 

help the enforcement agencies such as police, customs, 
excise and judiciary to settle the IP disputes 
expeditiously, if the IP data is made available on the 
blockchain.  
 
Blockchain Technology beyond IP 

Blockchain technologies holds promise for any 
field/sector which needs immutable/traceable record 
management. In India, apart from IP, blockchain 
technologies can be a game changer in the fields of 
real estate record keeping, financial record 
management, health sector and insurance sector. Real 
estate sector needs a traceable maintenance of title 
and its audit trail. Blockchain with its immutable 
record keeping can solve a long festering issue in Real 
estate/land record management. The recent cyber 
attacks on the centralized server based financial 
system and compromise of hundreds of thousands of 

credit/debit card data of various national/international 
banks; accentuate the need of an alternative system 
for financial data maintenance. Blockchain offers a 
potential solution in this regard. Blockchain 
technology has the potential to transform health care 
by helping to set up Healthcare Information 
Exchanges having electronic medical records of 
individual patients together with their entire 
prescription history. Using it, not only the medical 
practitioners can provide personalized healthcare 
experience to patients but also the same records may 
be used in settling medi-claims. Blockchain can lead 
to smart insurance contracts expediting the claim 
settlement and minimizing fraudulent cases. Further, 
it may be used in creating a seamless smart ecosystem 
in insurance sector be it travel, crop, property or 
health insurance. 
 

Government Initiatives in India on Blockchain 
In recent past, the Government of India has shown 

keen interest on transforming its economy to digital 
economy. Various steps have been undertaken by the 
government to adopt and enhance the use of latest 
technologies. As a premier think-tank of the 
Government of India, National Institution for 
Transforming India (NITI) Aayog provides critical 
knowledge, innovation and entrepreneurial support to 
the country. It is exploring the use of blockchain and 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) in diverse areas such as 
education, healthcare, agriculture, electricity 
distribution and land records. The institution is 
exploring a platform called ‘IndiaChain’ – a 
blockchain-enabled infrastructure for Indian enterprise 
and government.3 Once implemented, this will be 
world’s largest blockchain implementation program in 
governance. Further, NITI Aayog has released a 
discussion paper on National Strategy for Artificial 
Intelligence in June, 2018 which envisages establishing 
a decentralized data marketplace that is based on 
blockchain technology.4 Apart from laudable initiatives 
from Union Government, State Governments have also 
shown their enthusiasm in adopting blockchain 
technologies for digital transformation in governance. 
States like Maharashtra,5 Andhra Pradesh,6 Telangana,7 
Karnataka8 and Kerala9 are exploring the possibilities 
to use distributed ledger technologies for their e-
governance initiatives. National Association of 
Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), the 
apex body for IT BPM industry in India, has recently 
signed a pact with blockchain research institute to 
evangelize blockchain ecosystem in India.10 
Conclusion 
It is evident that blockchain technology has immense 

potential to cater the needs ofn IP offices across the 
globe. The sooner IP offices adopt this technology in to 
their day to day activities; it will yield better results in 
terms of faster examination, reliable record 
management, smart licensing and contractual 
agreements. The technology will not only help improved 
prosecution but also prove useful in enforcement of IP 
rights and settlement of IP infringement disputes. 
Though, Blockchain has enormous potential to offer, 
there are certain restrictions in terms of security, network 
size, speed, growth rates and transaction rates. Time and 
again apprehensions have been raised about the 
possibilities of choking of blockchain enabled network/ 
system in case of huge number of transactions within a 
fraction of time. These challenges need to be addressed 
effectively in order to reap the fullest benefit of the 
blockchain technology.





